                      Meeting
                                       of  Federal  Open  Market  Committee
                                                   June  20,  1967
                                               MINUTES  OF  ACTIONS
               A  meeting  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  was  held  in
the  offices  of  the  Board  of Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System
in Washington,  D. C.,   on  Tuesday,  June  20,  1967,  at  9:30  a.m.
                PRESENT:    Mr.  Martin, Chairman
                                   Mr.  Hayes,  Vice  Chairman
                                   Mr.  Brimmer
                                   Mr.  Maisel
                                   Mr.  Mitchell
                                   Mr.  Robertson
                                   Mr.  Scanlon
                                   Mr.  Sherrill
                                   Mr.  Swan
                                   Mr.  Wayne
                                   Mr.  Patterson,  Alternate  for Mr. Francis
                                   Messrs.  Ellis,  Hickman,  and  Galusha, Alternate
                                           Members  of  the Federal  Open Market  Committee
                                   Messrs.  Bopp, Clay,  and  Irons,  Presidents  of
                                           the  Federal  Reserve Banks  of  Philadelphia,
                                           Kansas  City,  and  Dallas,  respectively
                                           Mr.  Holland, Secretary
                                           Mr. Sherman, Assistant  Secretary
                                           Mr.  Kenyon, Assistant  Secretary
                                           Mr.  Broida,  Assistant  Secretary
                                           Mr.  Molony,  Assistant  Secretary
                                           Mr.  Hackley, General  Counsel
                                           Mr.  Brill,  Economist
                                           Messrs.  Craven,  Hersey, Jones, Koch,  and
                                                   Partee, Associate  Economists
                                           Mr. Holmes,  Manager,  System  Open Market
                                                   Account
                                           Mr. Coombs,  Special Manager,  System  Open
                                                   Market  Account
6/20/67
                                                              -2
                                          Mr. Cardon, Legislative  Counsel,  Board  of
                                                  Governors
                                          Mr. Fauver, Assistant  to  the Board  of
                                                  Governors
                                          Mr. O'Connell,  Assistant General  Counsel,
                                                  Legal  Division, Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr. Williams,  Adviser,  Division  of  Research
                                                  and  Statistics,  Board  of Governors
                                          Mr. Axilrod,  Associate  Adviser, Division
                                                  of  Research  and  Statistics,  Board  of
                                                  Governors
                                          Miss  Eaton,  General  Assistant,  Office  of
                                                   the  Secretary, Board  of  Governors
                                          Miss  McWhirter, Analyst,  Office  of  the
                                                  Secretary,  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr.  Lewis,  First  Vice  President,  Federal
                                                  Reserve  Bank of  St.  Louis
                                          Messrs.  Eisenmenger,  Link,  Eastburn, Mann,
                                                  Parthemos,  Taylor, Tow,  and Green, Vice
                                                  Presidents  of  the  Federal  Reserve Banks
                                                   of Boston, New York,  Philadelphia,
                                                   Cleveland,  Richmond,  Atlanta,  Kansas
                                                   City,  and  Dallas,  respectively
                                           Mr. Nelson,  Director  of Research, Federal
                                                  Reserve  Bank  of Minneapolis
                                           Mr.  Deming,  Manager,  Securities  Department,
                                                   Federal  Reserve  Bank  of New York
                                           Mr.  Stiles,  Senior Economist, Federal  Reserve
                                                   Bank of  Chicago
                By  unanimous  vote,  the  minutes  of  the  meeting  of  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee held  on May  23,  1967,  were  approved.
                By  unanimous  vote,  the  System open market  transactions  in
 foreign currencies  during  the  period May  23  through  June  19,  1967,
 were  approved,  ratified,  and  confirmed.
                By  unanimous  vote,  renewal  until  December  22,  1967  of  the
 $50  million  supplementary  swap arrangement  with  the National  Bank  of
 Belgium,  scheduled  to mature  on  June  30,  1967,  and  its  consolidation
                                                              -3
 6/20/67
with  the  basic  $100  million  arrangement maturing  on December  22,
 1967,  was  approved,  on  the  understanding  that  the  combined
 arrangement  would  have a  twelve-month  term after  December  22,  1967.
                By  unanimous  vote,  renewal  for  a  further  period  of  six
months  of  the  $150  million  standby  swap  arrangement with  the
Netherlands  Bank,  scheduled  to mature  on June  30,  1967,  was  approved.
                By  unanimous  vote,  the  open market  transactions  in Government
 securities,  agency  obligations,  and  bankers'  acceptances  during  the
 period  May  23  through  June  19,  1967,  were  approved,  ratified,  and
 confirmed.
                By  unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York  was
 authorized  and  directed,  until  otherwise  directed  by  the  Committee,
 to  execute  transactions  in  the  System Account  in  accordance with  the
 following  current  economic  policy  directive:
                    The  economic and  financial  developments  reviewed  at
           this  meeting  suggest  that  economic  activity  is  rising
          modestly,  and  that  prospects  for  economic  expansion  later
           in  the  year  have  strengthened.    Output  is  still  being
           retarded  by adjustments  of  excessive  inventories,  but
           growth  in  final  demands  continues  strong,  reflecting
           substantial  further  increases  in Government  expenditures
           and  also  some  strengthening  of  consumer  buying.    Prices
           of  farm products  have  turned  up  recently,  but  average
           prices  of  industrial  commodities  have  remained  stable.
          The  pace  of  bank  credit  expansion  has  increased  in  recent
          weeks,  but  is  still well  below  the  rapid  rate  of  earlier
           in  the  year.   Most  long-term interest  rates  have  tended
           to  rise  further  under  the  influence  of  heavy  securities
          market  financing,  and most  short-term yields  have  also
           increased.    The  balance  of  payments  deficit has  remained
           substantial  despite  some  improvement  in  the  foreign  trade
6/20/67
          surplus.    In  this  situation,  it  is  the Federal  Open
          Market  Committee's  policy  to  foster  money  and  credit
          conditions,  including  bank  credit  growth,  conducive  to
          renewed  economic  expansion, while  recognizing  the  need
          for  progress  toward  reasonable  equilibrium  in  the
          country's  balance  of  payments.
                   To  implement  this  policy, while  taking  account of
          expected  Treasury  financing  activity,  the  timing  and
          quantity of  which are  still  uncertain,  System open
          market  operations  until  the  next  meeting  of  the  Committee
          shall be  conducted  with  a  view  to maintaining  about  the
          same  conditions  in  the money  market  as have  prevailed
          since  the  preceding meeting  of  the  Committee, while
          continuing  to  utilize  operations  in  coupon  issues  in
          supplying  part  of  reserve  needs.
                By  unanimous vote,  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee's  rules
regarding  the availability  of  information  were revised  effective
July  4,  1967,  to  read  as  follows:
                       RULES  REGARDING  AVAILABILITY  OF  INFORMATION
                                   SECTION  271.1--BASIS AND SCOPE
                    This Part  is  issued  by  the Federal  Open Market
          Committee  (the  "Committee")  pursuant  to  the  require
          ment  of  section  552  of  Title  5  of  the  United  States
          Code  that  every  agency  shall  publish  in  the  Federal
          Register  for  the  guidance  of  the  public  descriptions
          of  the  established  places  at which,  the  officers  from
          whom, and  the methods  whereby,  the  public may  obtain
          information, make  submittals  or  requests  or  obtain
          decisions.
                                         SECTION  271.2--DEFINITIONS
                    (a) "Information of   the  Committee".  -  For  purposes
          of  this  Part,  the  term "information  of  the  Committee"
          means  all  information  coming  into  the  possession  of
          the  Committee  or  of  any member  thereof  or  of any  officer,
          employee,  or  agent  of  the  Committee,  the  Board  of  Governors
6/20/67
          of  the Federal  Reserve  System, or  any  Federal  Reserve
          Bank,  in  the  performance  of  duties  for,  or  pursuant  to
          the  direction  of,  the  Committee,
                    (b) "Records  of  the  Committee".   - For  purposes  of
          this  Part,  the  term  "records  of  the  Committee" means
          rules,  statements,  opinions,  orders, memoranda,  letters,
          reports,  accounts,  and  other  papers  containing  informa
          tion  of  the  Committee  that  constitute  a part  of  the
          Committee's  official  files.
                                 SECTION  271.3--PUBLISHED  INFORMATION
                    (a) Federal  Register.  - To  the  extent  required  by
          sections  552  and  553  of  the  U.S.  Code,  and  subject  to
          the  provisions  of  sections  271.5  and  271.6 of  this
          Part,  the Committee  publishes  in  the  Federal  Register,
          in  addition  to  this  Part,
                    (1)   a  description  of  its  organization;
                    (2)    statements  of  the  general  course  and
                             method  by  which  its  functions  are
                              channeled  and  determined;
                    (3)    rules  of  procedure;
                    (4)    substantive  rules  of  general  applicability,
                              and  statements  of  general  policy  and  inter
                              pretations  of  general  applicability  formu
                              lated  and  adopted  by  the  Committee;
                    (5)    every  amendment,  revision,  or  repeal  of  the
                              foregoing;  and
                     (6)    general  notices  of  proposed  rule  making.
                     (b)  Policy  record.  - In accordance with  section  10
           of  the  Federal  Reserve Act  (12 U.S.C.  247a),  each annual
           report made  to  Congress  by  the Board  of  Governors  of  the
           Federal  Reserve  System  includes  a  complete  record  of  the
           actions  taken  by  the  Committee  during  the  preceding  year
           upon all  matters  of  policy  relating to  open market  opera
           tions,  showing  the  votes  taken  and  the  reasons  underlying
           such  actions.
6/20/67
                    (c) Other  published  information. - From time  to  time,
          other information  relating  to  open market  operations  of
          the  Federal Reserve  Banks  is  published  in  the  Federal
          Reserve Bulletin,  issued  monthly  by  the Board  of  Governors
          of  the  Federal  Reserve  System, in  such  Board's  annual
          report  to  Congress,  and  in  announcements  and  statements
          released  to  the  press.    Copies  of  issues  of  the  Bulletin
          and  of  annual  reports  of  the  Board may  be  obtained  upon
          request.
                     SECTION  271.4--RECORDS  AVAILABLE  TO  THE PUBLIC
                                                        ON  REQUEST
                    (a) Records  available.  - Records  of  the  Committee
          are  made  available  to  any  person,  upon  request,  for
          inspection  or  copying  in accordance  with  the  provisions
          of  this  section and  subject  to  the  limitations  stated
          in  sections  271.5  and  271.6  of  this Part.    Records
          falling  within  the  exemptions  from  disclosure  set  forth
          in  section  552(b)  of Title  5  of  the  United  States  Code
          and  in  section 271.6  of  this  Part may  nevertheless be
          made available  in  accordance with  this  section  to  the
          fullest  extent consistent,  in  the Committee's  judgment,
          with  the  effective  performance  of  the  Committee's
          statutory  responsibilities  and  with  the  avoidance  of
          injury  to  a  public  or  private  interest  intended  to  be
          protected  by  such  exemptions.
                    (b) Place and  time.  -  In  general,  the  records  of
          the  Committee  are  held  in  the  custody  of  the  Board  of
          Governors  of  the  Federal Reserve  System, but  certain
          of  such  records,  or  copies  thereof,  are held  in  the
          custody  of  one  or more  of  the  Federal  Reserve Banks.
          Any  such  records  subject  to  this  section  will  be made
          available  for  inspection  or  copying  during  regular
          business  hours  at  the  offices  of  the Board  of  Governors
          of  the  Federal Reserve  System  in  the Federal  Reserve
          Building,  20th  and  Constitution Avenue, Washington,
          D.  C.,  20551,  or,  in  certain  instances  as  provided in
          paragraph  (c) of  this  section, at  the  offices  of  one
          or more  designated Federal  Reserve  Banks.
                    (c) Obtaining access  to  records.  - Any  person
          requesting  access  to  records  of  the  Committee  shall
          submit  such  request  in writing  to  the  Secretary  of
6/20/67
          the  Board  of  Governors  of  the Federal  Reserve  System.
          In any  case  in  which  the  records  requested,  or copies
          thereof,  are  available  at a  Federal  Reserve Bank,  the
          Secretary  of  the  Board  may  so  advise  the  person  re
          questing  access  to  the  records.    Every  request  for
          access  to  records  of  the  Committee  shall  state  the
          full  name  and  address  of  the  person  requesting  them
          and  shall  describe  such  records  in  a  manner  reasonably
          sufficient  to  permit  their  identification  without
          undue  difficulty;  and  such  person  shall  pay  a  fee  in
          an  amount  based  upon  $5  per hour  for  the  time  required
          to  locate  such  records  and  prepare  them  for  inspection
          plus  10  cents  per  standard  page  for  any  copying  thereof.
                        SECTION  271.5--DEFERMENT  OF  AVAILABILITY
                                             OF  CERTAIN  INFORMATION
                    (a) Deferred  availability  of  information.  - In
          some  instances,  certain  types  of  information  of  the
          Committee  are  not  published  in  the  Federal  Register
          or  made  available  for  public  inspection  or  copying
          until  after  such  period  of  time  as  the  Committee may
          determine  to  be  reasonably necessary  to  avoid  the
          effects  described  in  paragraph  (b)  of  this  section  or
          as  may  otherwise  be  necessary  to  prevent  impairment
          of  the  effective  discharge  of  the Committee's  statutory
          responsibilities.    For  example,  the  Committee's  current
          economic  policy  directive  adopted  at  each  meeting  of
          the  Committee  is  published  in  the  Federal  Register
          approximately  90  days  after  the  date  of  its  adoption;
          and  no  information  in  the  records  of  the  Committee
          relating  to  the  adoption  of  any  such  directive  is
          made  available  for public  inspection  or  copying  before
          it  is  published  in  the Federal  Register.
                    (b)  Reasons  for  deferment  of  availability.
          Publication  of,  or  access  to,  certain  information  of
           the Committee may  be deferred  because  earlier  disclo
           sure  of  such  information would
                    (1)    interfere with  the  orderly  execution  of
                              policies  adopted  by  the Committee  in  the
                              performance  of  its  statutory  functions;
   sure  of  such  information would
                    (1)    interfere with  the  orderly  execution  of
                              policies  adopted  by  the Committee  in  the
                              performance  of  its  statutory  functions;

