                         Meeting  of  Federal  Open  Market  Committee
                                                      March  5,  1968
                                                MINUTES  OF  ACTIONS
                A  meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  was  held  in
the  offices  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System
 in Washington, D.  C.,   on  Tuesday,  March  5,  1968,  at  9:30  a.m.
                PRESENT:    Mr.  Martin,  Chairman
                                    Mr.  Hayes,  Vice  Chairman
                                    Mr.  Br immer
                                    Mr.  Ellis
                                    Mr.  Galusha
                                    Mr.   Hickman
                                    Mr.  Kimbrel
                                    Mr.   Maisel
                                    Mr.  Mitchell
                                    Mr.   Robertson
                                    Mr.  Sherrill
                                    Messrs.  Bopp,  Clay,  Coldwell,  and  Scanlon,
                                            Alternate  Members  of  the  Federal  Open
                                            Market  Committee
                                    Messrs. Wayne,  Francis,  and  Swan, Presidents
                                            of  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of Richmond,
                                            St.  Louis,  and  San  Francisco,  respectively
                                            Mr.  Holland,  Secretary
                                            Mr.  Sherman,  Assistant  Secretary
                                            Mr.  Kenyon,  Assistant  Secretary
                                            Mr.  Broida,  Assistant  Secretary
                                            Mr.  Molony,  Assistant  Secretary
                                            Mr.  Hackley,  General  Counsel
                                            Mr.  Brill,  Economist
                                            Messrs.  Axilrod,  Hersey,  Kareken,  Link,
                                                    Mann,  Partee,  Reynolds,  Solomon,  and
                                                    Taylor,  Associate  Economists
                                            Mr.  Holmes,  Manager,  System Open Market
                                                    Account
                                            Mr.  Coombs,  Special  Manager,  System Open
                                                    Market  Account
3/5/68
                                          Messrs.  Cardon  and  Fauver, Assistants  to  the
                                                  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr. Williams,  Adviser, Division  of  Research
                                                  and  Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr. Wernick, Associate Adviser,  Division
                                                  of Research and  Statistics,  Board  of
                                                  Governors
                                          Mr.  Keir,  Assistant  Adviser,  Division of
                                                 Research  and  Statistics,  Board  of
                                                  Governors
                                          Mr.  Bernard,  Special  Assistant,  Office  of  the
                                                  Secretary,  Board  of  Governors
                                          Miss  Eaton,  General  Assistant,  Office  of  the
                                                  Secretary, Board  of  Governors
                                          Miss McWhirter,  Analyst, Office  of  the
                                                  Secretary,  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr.  Heflin, First  Vice  President  of  the
                                                  Federal  Reserve  Bank of  Richmond
                                          Messrs.  Eastburn, Baughman, Andersen, Tow,
                                                  Green,  and  Craven, Vice  Presidents  of
                                                  the  Federal Reserve  Banks  of Philadelphia,
                                                  Chicago,  St.  Louis,  Kansas  City, Dallas,
                                                  and  San  Francisco,  respectively
                                          Mr.  Haymes,  Assistant  Vice  President,  Federal
                                                  Reserve Bank  of Richmond
                                          Mr.  Cooper,  Manager,  Securities  and Acceptance
                                                  Departments,  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New
                                                  York
                                          Mr.  Anderson, Financial  Economist,  Federal
                                                  Reserve  Bank of  Boston
                The Secretary  reported  that  advices  had  been received  of
 the  election by  the  Federal Reserve  Banks  of  members  and  alternate
 members  of  the  Federal Open Market  Committee  for  the  term  of  one
 year  beginning March  1,  1968,  that  it  appeared  that  such  persons
 were  legally  qualified  to  serve,  and  that  they had  executed  their
 oaths  of  office.
                The  elected  members  and  alternates were  as  follows:
                                                                -3
3/5/68
          George  H. Ellis,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank
              of  Boston, with  Karl  R.  Bopp,  President  of  the  Federal
             Reserve  Bank  of  Philadelphia,  as  alternate;
          Alfred  Hayes,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank
              of New York,  with  William F.  Treiber,  First Vice
              President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York,
              as  alternate;
          W.  Braddock Hickman, President  of  the  Federal  Reserve
              Bank  of  Cleveland, with  Charles  J. Scanlon,  President
              of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Chicago,  as  alternate;
          Monroe  Kimbrel,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank
              of  Atlanta,  with  Philip  E. Coldwell,  President  of  the
              Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Dallas,  as  alternate;
          Hugh D.  Galusha,  Jr.,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve
              Bank  of Minneapolis,  with  George  H.  Clay,  President
              of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Kansas  City,  as
              alternate.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  following  officers  of  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee  were  elected  to  serve  until  the  election  of
 their  successors  at  the  first meeting  of  the  Committee  after
 February 28,  1969,  with  the  understanding  that  in  the  event  of  the
 discontinuance  of  their  official  connection with  the  Board  of
 Governors  or  with  a Federal  Reserve  Bank,  as  the  case  might  be,
 they would  cease  to have  any  official  connection  with  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee:
          Wm. McC.  Martin,  Jr.                                            Chairman
           Alfred  Hayes                                                    Vice  Chairman
           Robert  C. Holland                                               Secretary
           Merritt  Sherman                                                 Assistant  Secretary
           Kenneth  A.  Kenyon                                              Assistant  Secretary
           Arthur  L.  Broida                                               Assistant  Secretary
           Charles  Molony                                                  Assistant  Secretary
3/5/68
          Howard  H.  Hackley                                                General  Counsel
          David  B.  Hexter                                                 Assistant  General  Counsel
          Daniel  H.  Brill                                                  Economist
          Stephen  H.  Axilrod, A.  B.
              Hersey,  John  H.  Kareken,
              Albert  R.  Koch,  Robert  G.
              Link, Maurice  Mann,
              J.  Charles  Partee,  John E.
              Reynolds,  Robert  Solomon,
              Charles  T.  Taylor,  and
              Parker  B. Willis                                              Associate  Economists
                By  unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of New  York
was  selected  to  execute  transactions   for  the  System Open  Market
Account  until  the  adjournment  of  the  first  meeting  of  the  Federal
Open  Market  Committee  after  February  28,  1969.
                By  unanimous  vote,  Alan  R.  Holmes  and  Charles  A.  Coombs
 were  selected  to  serve  at  the  pleasure  of  the  Federal  Open Market
 Committee  as  Manager  of  the  System Open  Market  Account  and  as
 Special  Manager  for  foreign  currency  operations  for  such Account,
 respectively,  it  being  understood  that  their  selection was  subject
 to  their  being  satisfactory  to  the  Board  of Directors  of  the
 Federal Reserve  Bank of  New York.
                              Secretary's  Note:    Advice  subsequently
                              was  received  that  Messrs.  Holmes  and
                              Coombs  were  satisfactory  to  the  Board
                               of Directors  of  the  Federal Reserve
                              Bank  of New  York  for  service  in  the
                               respective  capacities  indicated.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  minutes  of  actions  taken  at  the
 meeting  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee held  on February  6,
 1968,  were  approved.
3/5/68
                The  memorandum  of discussion  for  the meeting  of  the  Federal
Open Market  Committee  held  on  February  6,  1968,  was  accepted.
                Consideration  was  then  given  to  the  continuing  authoriza
 tions  of  the  Committee,  according  to  the  customary practice  of
reviewing  such  matters  at  the  first  meeting  in March  of  every  year,
 and  the  actions  set  forth  hereinafter  were  taken.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  following  procedures  with  respect
 to  allocations  of  securities  in  the  System  Open Market  Account
were  approved  without  change:
                      1.    Securities  in  the  System Open  Market Account
           shall  be  reallocated  on  the  last  business  day  of  each
          month  by means  of  adjustments  proportionate  to  the
           adjustments  that  would have  been  required  to  equalize
           approximately  the  average  reserve  ratios  of  the  12
          Federal  Reserve  Banks  based  on  the  most  recent  available
           five  business  days'  reserve  ratio  figures.
                       2.   The  Board's  staff  shall  calculate,  in  the
          morning  of  each  business  day,  the  reserve  ratios  of
           each  Bank  after  allowing  for  the  indicated  effects  of
           the  settlement  of  the  Interdistrict  Settlement  Fund
           for  the  preceding  day.    If  these  calculations  should
           disclose  a  deficiency  in  the  reserve  ratio  of  any  Bank,
           the  Board's  staff  shall  inform  the  Manager  of  the  System
          Open Market  Account,  who  shall  make  a  special  adjustment
           as  of  the  previous  day  to  restore  the  reserve  ratio  of
           that  Bank  to  the  average  of  all  the  Banks.    However,
           such  adjustments  shall  not  be  made  beyond  the  point
          where  a deficiency  would  be  created  at  any  other  Bank.
           Such  adjustments  shall  be  offset  against  the  participa
           tion  of  the  Bank  or  Banks  best  able  to  absorb  the
           additional  amount  or,  at  the  discretion  of  the  Manager,
           against  the  participation  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank
           of  New York.   The  Board's  staff  and  the  Bank  or  Banks
           concerned  shall  then  be  notified  of  the  amounts  involved
           and  the  Interdistrict  Settlement  Fund  shall  be  closed
           after  giving  effect  to  the  adjustments  as  of  the
           preceding  business  day.
3/5/68
                      3.    Until  the  next  reallocation  the  Account  shall
          be  apportioned  on  the  basis  of  the  ratios  determined
          in  paragraph  1,  after  allowing  for  any  adjustments  as
          provided  for  in  paragraph  2.
                      4.    Profits  and  losses  on  the  sale  of  securities
          from  the  Account  shall  be  allocated  on  the  day  of
          delivery  of  the  securities  sold  on  the  basis  of  each
          Bank's  current  holdings  at  the  opening  of  business  on
          that  day.
                By  unanimous  vote,  the  following  list  for  distribution  of
periodic  reports  prepared  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York
 for  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee was  approved:
             1.   Members  and Alternate  Members  of  the  Committee,
                            other  Reserve  Bank Presidents,  and  officers
                            of  the  Committee.
          *2.    The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury.
           *3.    The  Under  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  for  Monetary
                            Affairs  and  the  Deputy Under  Secretary  for
                            Monetary  Affairs.
           *4.    The  Assistant  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury
                            working  on debt  management  problems.
           *5.    The  Fiscal  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Treasury.
             6.    The  Director  of  the  Division  of  Bank Operations
                             of  the  Board  of  Governors.
             7.    The  officer  in  charge  of  research  at  each  of  the
                            Federal  Reserve  Banks  not  represented by  its
                            President  on  the  Committee.
             8.    The  officers  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New
                            York  working  under  the Manager  and  Special
                            Manager  of  the  System  Open Market  Account.
             9.   With  the  approval  of  a member  of  the  Committee
                             or  any  other  President  of  a  Federal  Reserve
                             Bank, with  notice  to  the  Secretary,  any  other
                             employee  of  the  Board  of  Governors  or  of  a
                             Federal  Reserve  Bank.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  Committee  reaffirmed  the  authoriza
  tion,  first  given  on March  1,  1951,   for  the  Chairman  to  appoint  a
 *    Weekly  reports   only.
3/5/68
 Federal  Reserve  Bank  to  operate  the  System  Open Market  Account
 temporarily  in  case  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York  is  unable
 to  function.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  following  resolution  to provide
 for  the  continued  operation  of  the Federal  Open Market  Committee
during  an  emergency  was  reaffirmed:
                    In  the  event  of  war  or  defense  emergency,  if  the
          Secretary  or Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Federal  Open
          Market  Committee  (or  in  the  event  of  the  unavailability
          of  both  of  them, the  Secretary  or Acting  Secretary  of
          the  Board  of  Governors  of  the Federal  Reserve  System)
          certifies  that  as  a  result  of  the  emergency  the  available
          number  of  regular  members  and  regular  alternates  of  the
          Federal  Open Market  Committee  is  less  than  seven,  all
          powers  and  functions  of  the  said  Committee  shall  be
          performed  and  exercised  by,  and  authority  to  exercise
          such  powers  and  functions  is hereby  delegated  to,  an
          Interim  Committee,  subject  to  the  following  terms  and
          conditions:
                    Such  Interim  Committee  shall  consist  of  seven
          members,  comprising  each  regular  member  and  regular
          alternate  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  then
          available,   together with an  additional  number,
           sufficient  to  make  a  total  of  seven,  which  shall  be
          made  up  in  the  following order  of  priority  from  those
          available:     (1) each  alternate  at  large  (as  defined
          below);  (2) each President  of  a  Federal  Reserve  Bank
          not  then  either  a  regular  member  or  an alternate;   (3)
          each  First  Vice  President  of  a Federal  Reserve  Bank;
          provided  that  (a) within  each  of  the  groups  referred
           to  in  clauses  (1),   (2),   and  (3) priority of  selection
           shall  be  in  numerical  order  according  to  the  numbers
          of  the  Federal  Reserve  Districts,  (b) the  President
          and  the  First  Vice President  of  the  same  Federal  Reserve
          Bank  shall  not  serve  at  the  same  time  as  members  of  the
           Interim  Committee,  and  (c) whenever  a  regular  member  or
           regular  alternate  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee
           or  a person  having  a higher  priority  as  indicated  in
           clauses  (1),   (2),   and  (3) becomes  available  he  shall
 (c) whenever  a  regular  member  or
           regular  alternate  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee
           or  a person  having  a higher  priority  as  indicated  in
           clauses  (1),   (2),   and  (3) becomes  available  he  shall

