                       Minutes  of  Federal  Open  Market  Committee
                                                 March  4,  1969
                                           MINUTES  OF ACTIONS
                A  meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee was  held  in
the  offices  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System
in  Washington, D.  C.,   on  Tuesday, March  4,  1969,  at  9:30  a.m.
                PRESENT:   Mr.   Martin,  Chairman
                                   Mr.  Hayes,  Vice  Chairman
                                   Mr.   Bopp
                                   Mr.  Brimmer
                                   Mr.  Clay
                                   Mr.  Coldwell
                                   Mr.  Daane
                                   Mr. Maisel
                                   Mr.  Mitchell
                                   Mr.  Robertson
                                   Mr.  Scanlon
                                   Mr.  Sherrill
                                   Messrs.  Francis,  Heflin,  Hickman,  Swan, and
                                           Treiber, Alternate  Members  of  the  Federal
                                           Open Market  Committee
                                   Messrs.  Morris,  Kimbrel,  and Galusha,  Presidents
                                           of  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  Boston,
                                           Atlanta,  and Minneapolis, respectively
                                           Mr.  Holland,  Secretary
                                           Mr.  Broida,  Deputy  Secretary
                                           Messrs.  Kenyon  and Molony, Assistant
                                                    Secretaries
                                           Mr.  Hackley,  General  Counsel
                                           Mr.  Brill,  Economist
                                           Messrs.  Axilrod, Baughman,  Eastburn,  Green,
                                                   Hersey,  Solomon,  and  Tow, Associate
                                                   Economists
                                           Mr.  Holmes,  Manager,  System Open  Market Account
                                           Mr.  Sherman, Consultant,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Messrs.  Coyne  and  Nichols,  Special  Assistants
                                                    to  the  Board  of Governors
3/4/69
                                           Mr.  Williams,  Adviser,  Division of Research
                                                   and  Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Mr.  Keir,  Assistant  Adviser,  Division  of
                                                  Research and  Statistics,  Board  of
                                                   Governors
                                           Mr. Bernard,  Special  Assistant,  Office  of  the
                                                   Secretary,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Miss  Eaton,  Open Market  Secretariat  Assistant,
                                                  Office  of  the  Secretary,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Messrs.  Parthemos,  Taylor,  and  Jones,  Senior
                                                  Vice  Presidents  of  the  Federal  Reserve
                                                  Banks  of  Richmond, Atlanta,  and  St.  Louis,
                                                   respectively
                                           Messrs.  Eisenmenger  and MacLaury,  Vice
                                                   Presidents  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks
                                                   of Boston  and  New  York,  respectively
                                           Messrs.  Garvy  and  Kareken, Economic  Advisers
                                                   of  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  New York
                                                  and  Minneapolis,  respectively
                                           Mr.  Shotwell,  Assistant  Vice  President  and
                                                  Economist,  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Cleveland
                                           Mr.  Cooper, Manager,  Securities  and  Acceptance
                                                   Departments,  Federal Reserve  Bank  of
                                                  New  York
                The  Secretary  reported  that  advices  had been  received  of
 the  election by  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  members  and  alternate
members  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  for  the  term  of  one
 year  beginning March  1,  1969,  that  it  appeared  that  such persons
were  legally  qualified  to  serve,  and  that  they  had  executed  their
 oaths  of  office.
                The  elected  members  and  alternates  were  as  follows:
          Alfred  Hayes,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York,
              with William  F.  Treiber,  First Vice  President  of  the  Federal
              Reserve  Bank  of  New  York, as  alternate;
3/4/69                                                            -3
          Karl  R. Bopp,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Phila
              delphia,  with Aubrey  N.  Heflin, President  of  the  Federal
              Reserve  Bank  of  Richmond,  as alternate;
          Charles  J.  Scanlon,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
              Chicago,  with W.  Braddock  Hickman, President  of  the  Federal
              Reserve  Bank  of Cleveland,  as  alternate;
          George  H.  Clay,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve Bank  of
              Kansas  City, with  Eliot  J.  Swan,  President  of  the  Federal
              Reserve  Bank  of  San  Francisco,  as  alternate;
          Philip  E.  Coldwell,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
              Dallas,  with  Darryl  R.  Francis,  President  of  the  Federal
              Reserve  Bank  of  St.  Louis,  as alternate.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  following  officers  of  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee  were  elected  to  serve until  the  election  of
 their  successors  at  the  first  meeting  of  the  Committee  after
 February  28,  1970, with  the  understanding  that  in  the  event  of  the
 discontinuance  of  their  official  connection with  the  Board  of
Governors  or  with  a  Federal  Reserve Bank,  as  the  case  might  be,
 they  would  cease  to  have  any  official  connection with  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee:
          Wm. McC. Martin,  Jr.                                                     Chairman
          Alfred  Hayes                                                              Vice  Chairman
          Robert  C.  Holland                                                        Secretary
          Arthur  L.  Broida                                                         Deputy  Secretary
          Kenneth A.  Kenyon  and  Charles Molony     Assistant  Secretaries
          Howard H.  Hackley                                                         General  Counsel
          David B.  Hexter                                                          Assistant General  Counsel
          Daniel  H.  Brill                                                         Economist
          Stephen H.  Axilrod,  Ernest  T.
                Baughman,  David P.  Eastburn,
                Ralph  T.  Green,  A.  B.  Hersey,
                Robert  G.  Link, J.  Charles Partee,
                John E.  Reynolds,  Robert  Solomon,
                and Clarence  W.  Tow                                               Associate  Economists
3/4/69
               By  unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve Bank  of New  York was
 selected  to  execute  transactions  for  the  System  Open Market  Account
 until  the  adjournment  of  the  first meeting  of  the  Federal  Open
Market  Committee  after  February  28,  1970.
               By  unanimous  vote,  Alan R.  Holmes  and Charles  A.  Coombs
were  selected  to  serve  at  the  pleasure  of  the  Federal  Open Market
 Committee  as Manager of  the  System  Open Market Account and  as
 Special  Manager  for  foreign  currency  operations  for  such Account,
 respectively,  it  being understood  that  their  selection was  subject
 to  their being  satisfactory  to  the  Board of  Directors  of  the  Federal
 Reserve Bank  of New  York.
                               Secretary's Note:    Advice  subsequently
                              was  received  that Messrs.  Holmes  and
                               Coombs were  satisfactory  to  the Board  of
                               Directors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                              New  York  for  service  in  the  respective
                               capacities indicated.
               By  unanimous  vote,  the  minutes  of  actions  taken at  the
 meeting of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  held  on  February 4,
 1969, were  approved.
               The  memorandum of  discussion  for  the  meeting  of  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee held  on February  4,  1969,  was  accepted.
                Consideration was  then  given  to  the  continuing  authorizations
 of  the  Committee,  according  to  the  customary practice  of reviewing
 such matters  at  the  first  meeting  in March  of every year,  and  the
 actions  set  forth  hereinafter were  taken.
3/4/69
                By  unanimous  vote,  the  following procedures  with  respect
 to  allocations  of  securities  in  the  System  Open Market  Account
were  approved without  change:
                    1.   Securities  in  the  System  Open Market Account
          shall  be  reallocated  on the  last  business  day  of  each
          month  by means  of  adjustments  proportionate  to  the
          adjustments  that  would have  been  required  to  equalize
          approximately  the  average  ratios  of  gold  holdings  to
          note  liabilities  of  the  twelve  Federal  Reserve Banks
          based  on  the  ratios  of  gold  to  notes  for  the most
          recent  five  business days.
                    2.   Until  the  next  reallocation  the Account  shall
          be  apportioned  on  the  basis  of  the  ratios  determined  in
          paragraph  1.
                    3.   Profits  and  losses  on the  sale  of  securities
          from the Account  shall  be  allocated  on  the  day  of
          delivery  of  the  securities  sold  on  the basis  of  each
          Bank's  current  holdings  at  the  opening  of business  on
           that day.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  following  list  for  distribution  of
 periodic reports  prepared by  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank of  New  York
 for  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  was  approved:
          1.   Members and  Alternate  Members  of  the  Committee,
                    other  Reserve  Bank Presidents,  and  officers of
                    the  Committee.
        *2.   The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury.
         *3.   The  Under Secretary  of  the Treasury  for  Monetary
                    Affairs and  the  Deputy Under  Secretary  for
                    Monetary Affairs.
         *4.   The  Assistant  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury
                    working  on  debt management  problems.
         *5.   The Fiscal  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Treasury.
           6.   The  Director  of  the  Division of  Federal  Reserve
                    Bank  Operations,  Board  of Governors
 *  Weekly  reports  only.
3/4/69
          7.   The  officer  in  charge  of  research  at  each  of  the
                   Federal  Reserve  Banks  not  represented by  its
                   President  on  the  Committee.
          8.   The  officers of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of New York
                   working under  the Manager  and  Special  Manager  of
                   the  System  Open Market  Account.
          9.   With  the  approval  of a  member  of  the  Committee  or
                   any  other  President  of  a Federal  Reserve Bank,
                   with notice  to  the  Secretary,  any  other  employee
                   of  the  Board of  Governors  or  of  a Federal  Reserve
                   Bank.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  Committee  reaffirmed  the  authoriza
 tion,  first  given  on March  1, 1951,  for  the  Chairman  to  appoint  a
 Federal  Reserve  Bank  to  operate  the  System Open Market Account
 temporarily  in  case  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of New  York  is unable
 to  function.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  following  resolution  to  provide  for
 the  continued  operation  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  during
an  emergency was  reaffirmed:
                    In  the  event  of war  or  defense  emergency,  if  the
          Secretary or  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Federal  Open
          Market  Committee  (or  in  the  event  of  the  unavailability
          of both  of  them,  the Secretary  or  Acting  Secretary  of
          the  Board  of Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System)
          certifies  that  as  a result  of  the  emergency  the  avail
          able  number  of  regular  members and  regular  alternates
          of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  is  less  than  seven,
          all  powers  and  functions  of  the  said  Committee shall  be
          performed  and  exercised by,  and  authority  to  exercise
          such powers  and functions  is hereby  delegated  to,  an
          Interim Committee,  subject  to  the  following  terms  and
          conditions:
                    Such  Interim  Committee  shall  consist of  seven
          members,  comprising  each  regular  member  and  regular
          alternate  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  then
3/4/69
          available,  together  with  an  additional  number,  sufficient
          to  make a  total  of  seven, which  shall  be  made up  in  the
          following  order  or priority from  those  available:    (1)
          each  alternate  at  large  (as  defined below);  (2) each
          President  of  a Federal  Reserve  Bank not  then  either  a
          regular member  or  an alternate;  (3) each First  Vice
          President  of  a  Federal  Reserve  Bank;  provided  that  (a)
          within  each  of  the  groups  referred  to  in  clauses  (1),
          (2),   and  (3) priority  of  selection  shall  be  in  numerical
          order  according  to  the  numbers  of  the  Federal  Reserve
          Districts,  (b)  the President  and  the First  Vice  President
          of  the  same  Federal  Reserve  Bank  shall  not  serve  at  the
          same  time  as  members  of  the  Interim  Committee,  and  (c)
          whenever  a regular  member  or  regular  alternate  of  the
          Federal  Open Market  Committee  or  a person having  a higher
          priority as  indicated  in clauses  (1),   (2),  and  (3) becomes
          available  he  shall  become a  member  of  the  Interim  Committee
          in the place  of  the person  then  on  the  Interim Committee
          having  the  lowest priority.   The  Interim Committee  is
          hereby  authorized  to  take  action by majority  vote  of  those
          present whenever  one  or  more  members  thereof  are  present,
          provided  that  an  affirmative vote  for  the  action  taken
          is  cast by at  least  one  regular  member,  regular  alternate,
          or  President  of  a Federal  Reserve  Bank.   The  delegation
          of  authority  and  other  procedures  set  forth above  shall
          be effective  only  during  such period  or periods  as  there
          are available  less  than  a total  of  seven regular  members
          and regular  alternates  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Com
          mittee.
                   As  used  herein  the  term  "regular  member"  refers  to
          a member  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  duly
          appointed  or  elected in  accordance  with existing law;
          the  term  "regular alternate" refers  to  an alternate  of
          the  Committee  duly  elected  in accordance with  existing
          law  and  serving  in  the  absence  of  the  regular member  for
          whom  he was elected;  and  the  term  "alternate at  large"
          refers  to any  other  duly  elected  alternate  of  the  Com
          mittee at  a  time when  the  member  in whose  absence he was
          elected  to  serve  is  available.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  following  resolution  authorizing
 certain  actions by  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  during  an emergency
 was  reaffirmed:
mber  in whose  absence he was
          elected  to  serve  is  available.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  following  resolution  authorizing
 certain  actions by  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  during  an emergency
 was  reaffirmed:

