                      Meeting of  Federal  Open Market  Committee
                                            MINUTES  OF  ACTIONS
                A meeting  of  the  Federal  Open Market Committee  was  held
 in the  offices  of  the  Board  of Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve
System  in Washington,  D.C.,   on  Tuesday, March  10,  1970,  at  9:30  a.m.
                PRESENT:    Mr.  Burns,  Chairman
                                   Mr.  Hayes,  Vice  Chairman
                                   Mr.  Brimmer
                                   Mr.  Daane
                                   Mr.  Heflin
                                   Mr.  Hickman
                                   Mr.  Maisel
                                   Mr.  Mitchell
                                   Mr.  Robertson
                                   Mr.  Sherrill
                                   Mr.  Swan
                                   Mr.  Kimbrel,  Alternate  for
                                           Mr.  Francis
                                   Messrs.  Galusha  and Morris,  Alternate  Members
                                           of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee
                                   Messrs.  Eastburn,  Clay,  and  Coldwell,  Presi
                                           dents  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of
                                           Philadelphia,  Kansas  City,  and Dallas,
                                           respectively
                                           Mr.  Holland,  Secretary
                                           Mr.  Broida,  Deputy  Secretary
                                           Messrs.  Kenyon and Molony, Assistant
                                                   Secretaries
                                           Mr.  Hackley,  General  Counsel
                                           Mr.  Partee,  Economist
                                           Messrs.  Axilrod,  Craven,  Garvy,  Hocter,
                                                   Jones,  Parthemos,  and  Solomon,
                                                   Associate  Economists
                                           Mr.  Holmes,  Manager,  System  Open Market
                                                   Account
                                            Mr.  Coombs,  Special  Manager,  System Open
                                                   Market  Account
3/10/70
                                          Mr.  Bernard,  Assistant  Secretary,  Board  of
                                                   Governors
                                          Mr.  Cardon, Assistant  to  the  Board  of  Governors
                                          Messrs.  Coyne  and  Nichols,  Special  Assistants
                                                   to  the  Board  of  Governors
                                           Mr.  Williams,  Adviser,  Division  of  Research
                                                   and  Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr.  Keir,  Associate  Adviser,  Division  of
                                                   Research  and  Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Mr.  Wendel,  Chief,  Government  Finance  Section,
                                                   Division  of  Research  and  Statistics,  Board
                                                   of  Governors
                                          Miss  Ormsby,  Special  Assistant,  Office  of  the
                                                   Secretary,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Miss  Eaton,  Open Market  Secretariat Assistant,
                                                   Office  of  the  Secretary,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Mr.  Lewis,  First  Vice  President,  Federal
                                                   Reserve  Bank  of  St.  Louis
                                           Messrs.  Baughman  and  Tow,  Senior  Vice  Presi
                                                   dents  of the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of
                                                   Chicago  and  Kansas  City,  respectively
                                           Messrs.  Brandt  and  Green, Vice  Presidents  of
                                                   the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  Atlanta  and
                                                   Dallas,  respectively
                                           Messrs. Gustus  and  Kareken, Economic Advisers
                                                   of  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of Phila
                                                   delphia  and  Minneapolis,  respectively
                                           Mr.  Friedman,  Consultant,  Federal  Reserve
                                                   Bank  of  Boston
                                           Mr.  Sandberg,  Securities  Trading Officer,
                                                   Federal  Reserve  Bank  of New  York
                The  Secretary  reported  that  advices  had  been  received  of  the
 election  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  members  and  alternate  mem
 bers  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  for  the  term of one  year
 beginning March  1,  1970,  that  it  appeared  that  such  persons  were
 legally  qualified   to  serve,  and  that  they  had  executed  their  oaths
 of  office.
3/10/70
                The  elected  members  and  alternates were  as  follows:
          Alfred  Hayes,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
              New  York,  with William F.  Treiber,  First  Vice President
              of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of New  York,  as  alternate;
          W.  Braddock  Hickman, President  of  the Federal  Reserve  Bank
              of  Cleveland,  with  Charles  J.  Scanlon,  President  of  the
              Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Chicago,  as  alternate;
          Aubrey  N.  Heflin, President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank
              of  Richmond,  with  Frank  E.  Morris,  President  of  the
              Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Boston,  as  alternate;
          Darryl  R.  Francis, President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank
              of  St.  Louis,  with Monroe  Kimbrel,  President  of  the
              Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Atlanta,  as  alternate;
          Eliot  J.  Swan,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
              San  Francisco, with  Hugh  D.  Galusha,  Jr.,  President  of
              the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of Minneapolis,  as  alternate.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  following  officers  of  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee  were  elected  to  serve  until  the  election  of
 their  successors  at  the  first  meeting  of  the  Committee  after  Febru
 ary  28,  1971,  with  the  understanding  that  in  the  event  of  the
 discontinuance  of  their  official  connection  with  the  Board  of
 Governors  or  with  a Federal  Reserve  Bank,  as  the  case  might  be,
 they  would  cease  to  have  any  official  connection  with  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee:
          Arthur  F.  Burns                                                        Chairman
          Alfred  Hayes                                                            Vice  Chairman
          Robert  C.  Holland                                                      Secretary
          Arthur  L.  Broida                                                       Deputy  Secretary
          Kenneth  A.  Kenyon  and  Charles  Molony   Assistant  Secretaries
          Howard  H.  Hackley                                                      General  Counsel
           David  B. Hexter                                                        Assistant  General  Counsel
3/10/70                                                       -4
          J.  Charles  Partee                                                      Economist
          Stephen H.  Axilrod,  J.  Howard
                Craven,  George  Garvy,  Lyle  E.
                Gramley,  A.  B.  Hersey, William J.
                Hocter, Homer  Jones,  John E.
                Reynolds,  James  Parthemos,  and
                Robert  Solomon                                                    Associate  Economists
                By  unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York
was  selected  to  execute  transactions  for  the  System  Open Market
Account  until  the  adjournment  of  the  first  meeting of  the  Federal
Open Market  Committee  after February  28,  1971.
                By  unanimous  vote, Alan  R.  Holmes  and  Charles  A.  Coombs
were  selected  to  serve  at  the  pleasure  of  the Federal  Open Market
 Committee  as Manager  of  the  System  Open Market  Account  and  as
 Special  Manager  for  foreign  currency  operations  for  such  Account,
 respectively,  it  being  understood   that  their  selection was  subject
 to  their  being  satisfactory  to  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Federal
 Reserve  Bank  of New York.
                                Secretary's  Note:    Advice  subsequently
                                was  received  that Messrs.  Holmes  and
                                Coombs  were  satisfactory  to  the  Board  of
                                Directors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank
                                of New  York  for  service  in  the  respec
                                tive  capacities  indicated.
                By  unanimous  vote,  the minutes  of  actions  taken  at  the
 meeting  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  held  on  February  10,
 1970, were  approved.
                The  memorandum of  discussion  for  the  meeting  of  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee  held  on  February  10,  1970, was  accepted.
3/10/70
                Consideration  was  then  given  to  the  continuing  authoriza
 tions  of  the  Committee,  according  to  the  customary practice  of
 reviewing  such  matters  at  the  first meeting  in March  of  every
 year.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  following  procedures  with  respect
 to  allocations  of  securities  in  the  System  Open Market Account
were  approved without  change:
                    1.    Securities  in  the  System Open Market  Account
          shall  be  reallocated  on  the  last  business  day  of  each
          month  by  means of  adjustments  proportionate  to  the
          adjustments  that  would  have  been  required  to  equalize
          approximately  the  average  ratios  of  gold  holdings  to
          note  liabilities  of  the  twelve  Federal  Reserve  Banks
          based  on  the  ratios  of  gold  to  notes  for  the  most
          recent  five  business  days.
                    2.   Until  the  next  reallocation  the  Account  shall
          be  apportioned on  the basis  of  the  ratios  determined
          in  paragraph  1.
                    3.   Profits  and  losses  on  the  sale  of  securities
           from  the  Account  shall  be  allocated  on  the  day  of
          delivery  of  the  securities  sold  on  the  basis  of  each
          Bank's  current holdings  at  the  opening  of  business  on
           that  day.
                By  unanimous  vote,  the  following  list  for  distribution  of
 periodic  reports  prepared  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York
 for  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  was  approved without
 change:
           1.   Members  and  Alternate  Members  of  the  Committee,
                    other  Reserve  Bank Presidents,  and  officers
                    of  the  Committee.
                                                               -6
3/10/70
        *2.    The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury.
        *3.    The  Under Secretary  of  the  Treasury  for Monetary
                    Affairs  and  the  Deputy  Under  Secretary  for
                    Monetary Affairs.
        *4.    The Assistant  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury
                    working  on debt management  problems.
         *5.   The  Fiscal Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Treasury.
           6.   The  Director  of  the   Division of  Federal  Reserve
                    Bank  Operations,  Board  of  Governors.
           7.    The  officer  in  charge  of  research  at  each  of  the
                    Federal  Reserve  Banks  not  represented  by  its
                    President  on  the  Committee.
           8.   The  officers  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York
                    working  under  the  Manager  and  Special  Manager  of
                     the  System  Open Market  Account.
           9.   With  the  approval  of  a member  of  the  Committee  or
                     any  other  President  of  a Federal  Reserve  Bank,
                    with  notice  to  the  Secretary,  any  other  employee
                     of  the  Board  of  Governors  or  of  a Federal  Reserve
                     Bank.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  Committee  reaffirmed  the  authoriza
 tion,  first  given  on  March  1, 1951,  for  the  Chairman  to  appoint  a
 Federal  Reserve  Bank  to  operate  the  System  Open Market  Account
 temporarily  in  case  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York  is  unable
  to  function.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  following  resolution  to  provide  for
  the  continued  operation  of  the  Federal Open  Market  Committee  during
  an  emergency  was  reaffirmed:
                     In  the  event  of  war  or  defense  emergency,  if  the
            Secretary  or  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Federal  Open
           Market  Committee  (or in  the  event  of  the  unavailability
           of  both  of  them,  the  Secretary  or  Acting  Secretary  of
            the  Board  of Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System)
            certifies  that  as  a  result  of  the  emergency  the  avail
            able  number  of  regular  members  and  regular  alternates
  *  Weekly  reports  only.
3/10/70
          of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  is  less  than  seven,
          all  powers  and  functions  of  the  said  Committee  shall  be
          performed  and  exercised  by,  and  authority  to  exercise
          such powers  and  functions  is  hereby  delegated  to,  an
          Interim  Committee,  subject  to  the  following  terms  and
          conditions:
                    Such  Interim  Committee  shall  consist  of  seven mem
          bers,  comprising  each  regular  member  and  regular
          alternate  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  then
          available,  together with  an  additional  number,  suffi
           cient  to make  a  total  of  seven,  which  shall  be  made  up
           in  the  following order  or  priority  from  those  available:
           (1)  each  alternate  at  large  (as  defined  below);   (2)  each
           President  of  a Federal Reserve  Bank not  then  either  a
           regular  member  or  an  alternate;   (3)  each  First  Vice
           President  of  a Federal Reserve  Bank;  provided  that
           (a)  within  each  of  the  groups  referred  to  in  clauses
           (1),   (2),   and  (3) priority  of  selection  shall  be  in
           numerical  order  according  to  the  numbers  of  the  Federal
           Reserve  Districts,   (b)  the  President  and  the  First  Vice
           President  of  the  same  Federal  Reserve  Bank  shall  not
           serve  at  the  same  time  as  members  of  the  Interim  Committee,
           and   (c) whenever  a regular  member  or  regular  alternate  of
           the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  or  a  person having  a
           higher  priority  as  indicated   in  clauses  (1),    (2),   and
           (3) becomes  available  he  shall  become  a member  of  the
           Interim  Committee  in  the  place  of  the  person  then  on
           the  Interim  Committee  having  the  lowest  priority.    The
           Interim  Committee  is hereby  authorized  to  take  action  by
           majority  vote  of  those  present  whenever  one  or more  mem
           bers  thereof  are  present,  provided  that  an  affirmative
           vote  for  the  action  taken  is  cast  by  at  least  one  regular
           member,  regular  alternate,  or  President  of  a  Federal
           Reserve  Bank.    The  delegation  of  authority  and  other
           procedures  set  forth  above  shall  be  effective  only  during
           such  period  or  periods  as  there  are  available  less  than
           a  total  of  seven  regular  members  and  regular  alternates
           of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee.
                     As  used  herein  the  term  "regular  member"  refers  to
           a member  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  duly
           appointed  or  elected  in  accordance  with  existing  law;
            the  term "regular  alternate"  refers  to  an  alternate  of
            the  Committee duly  elected  in  accordance  with  existing
            law  and  serving  in  the  absence  of  the  regular  member  for
with  existing  law;
            the  term "regular  alternate"  refers  to  an  alternate  of
            the  Committee duly  elected  in  accordance  with  existing
            law  and  serving  in  the  absence  of  the  regular  member  for

