                                                       Federal
                                 Meeting  of                           Open  Market  Committee
                                                              March  9,  1971
                                                       MINUTES  OF  ACTIONS
                A meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  was  held  in
the  offices  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System
in   Washington,   D.C.,    on  Tuesday,   March  9,   1971,   at  9:30  a.m.
                PRESENT:     Mr.   Burns,  Chairman
                                     Mr.  Hayes,    Vice  Chairman
                                     Mr.  Brimmer
                                     Mr.   Clay
                                     Mr.
                                             Daane
                                     Mr.   Kimbrel
                                     Mr.   Maisel
                                     Mr.   Mayo
                                     Mr.   Mitchell
                                     Mr.   Morris
                                     Mr.   Robertson
                                     Mr.   Sherrill
                                     Messrs.   Coldwell,    Eastburn,  and  Swan,  Alternate
                                             Members  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee
                                     Messrs.   Heflin  and  Francis,   Presidents  of  the
                                             Federal  Reserve   Banks  of  Richmond  and
                                             St.   Louis,   respectively
                                             Mr.   Holland,   Secretary
                                             Mr.   Broida,   Deputy  Secretary
                                             Messrs.   Bernard  and  Molony,    Assistant  Secretaries
                                             Mr.   Hackley,   General  Counsel
                                             Mr.   Hexter,   Assistant  General  Counsel
                                             Mr.   Partee,  Economist
                                             Messrs.   Axilrod,   Eisenmenger,   Gramley,   Hersey,
                                                     Reynolds,    Scheld,   Solomon,    and  Taylor,
                                                      Associate  Economists
                                             Mr.  Holmes,   Manager,    System  Open  Market  Account
                                             Mr.   Coombs,    Special  Manager,   System  Open  Market
                                                     Account
3/9/71
                                           Mr.  Kenyon, Deputy  Secretary,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Mr.  Leonard,  Assistant  Secretary, Board  of
                                                   Governors
                                           Mr.  Cardon, Assistant  to the  Board  of  Governors
                                           Mr.  O'Brien,  Special Assistant  to  the Board  of
                                                   Governors
                                           Mr.  Williams,  Adviser, Division  of  Research  and
                                                   Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Mr.  Keir,  Associate  Adviser,  Division  of  Research
                                                   and  Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Mr.  Bryant,  Associate  Adviser,  Division  of
                                                   International  Finance,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Mr.  Wendel,  Chief,  Government  Finance  Section,
                                                   Division of  Research  and  Statistics,
                                                   Board  of  Governors
                                           Miss  Ormsby,  Special  Assistant,  Office  of  the
                                                   Secretary,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Miss  Eaton,  Open Market  Secretariat  Assistant,
                                                   Office  of  the  Secretary,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Miss  Orr,  Secretary,  Office of  the  Secretary,
                                                   Board  of  Governors
                                           Messrs.  MacDonald  and  Strothman, First  Vice
                                                   Presidents,  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of
                                                   Cleveland and  Minneapolis.  respectively
                                           Messrs.  Parthemos  and  Cravan,  Senior  Vice
                                                   Presidents,  Federal Reserve  Banks  of
                                                   Richmond  and  San  Francisco,  respectively
                                            Messrs.  Hocter,  Andersen,  Billington, and  Green,
                                                   Vice  Presidents,  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of
                                                   Cleveland,  St.  Louis,  Kansas  City, and
                                                   Dallas,  respectively
                                            Messrs.  Gustus  and Kareken,  Economic Advisers,
                                                    Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  Philadelphia  and
                                                   Minneapolis,  respectively
                                            Messrs.  Meek and  Schadrack, Assistant Vice
                                                    Presidents,  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York
                 The  Secretary  reported  that  advices  had  been  received  of
  the  election by  the Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  members  and  alternate
  members  of  the Federal  Open  Market  Committee  for  the  term of  one
  year  beginning March  1, 1971,  that  it appeared  that  such  persons
  were  legally  qualified  to  serve,  and  that  they  had  executed  their
  oaths  of  office.
                                                                    -3-
3/9/71
                The  elected  members  and  alternates  were  as  follows:
          Frank  E. Morris,  President  of  the  Federal Reserve  Bark  of
              Boston, with David  P. Eastburn,  President  of  the  rederal
              Reserve  Bank  of  Philadelphia,  as  alternate;
          Alfred  Hayes,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
              New York, with William F. Treiber,  First  Vice  President
              of  the Federal  Reserve  Bank  of New  York,  as  alternate;
          Monroe Kimbrel,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
              Atlanta,  with  Philip  E. Coldwell,  President  of  the
               Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Dallas,  as  alternate;
          Robert  V. Mayo,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
               Chicago, with  the  person   who  shall  become  President  of
               the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Cleveland    as  alternate;
           George  H. Clay,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
               Kansas  City, with  Eliot  J.  Swan,  President  of  the
               Federal  Reserve  Bank of  San  Francisco,  as  alternate.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  following  officers  of  the  Federal
 Open  Market  Committee  were  elected  to  serve until  the  election  of
 their  successors  at  the first  meeting  of  the  Committee  after
 February  29,  1972,  with  the understanding  that  in  the  event  of  the
 discontinuance  of  their  official  connection  with  the Board  of
 Governors  or  with a Federal  Reserve  Bank,  as the  case  might  be,
 they would  cease  to have  any  official  connection  with  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee:
           Arthur  F. Burns                                                                  Chairman
           Alfred  Hayes                                                                     Vice  Chairman
           Robert  C. Holland                                                                Secretary
            Arthur  L. Broida                                                                Deputy  Secretary
           Normand  R.V.  Bernard  and  Charles  Molony    Assistant  Secretaries
            Howard  H. Hackley                                                               General  Counsel
            David  B. Hexter                                                                 Assistant  General  Counsel
                                                                  -4-
3/9/71
          J.  Charles  Partee                                                             Economist
          Stephen  H. Axilrod,  Robert  M.
                Eisenmenger,  George  Garvy,
                Lyle  E.   Gramley,  A.B.  Hersey,
                John  E.  Reynolds,  Karl  A.  Scheld,
                Robert  Solomon,  Charles  T.  Taylor,
                and  Clarence  W.  Tow                                                    Associate  Economists
                By  unanimous  vote,  the Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York
was  selected  to  execute  transactions  for  the  System Open  Market
 Account  until  the  adjournment  of  the  first  meeting  of  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee  after February  29,  1972.
                By  unanimous  vote,   Alan  R.   Holmes  and  Charles  A.   Coombs
 were  selected   to  serve  at  the  pleasure  of  the  Federal  Open  Market
 Committee  as  Manager  of  the  Systen  Open   Market  Account  and  as
 Special Manager  for  foreign currency operations  for  such Account,
 respectively,   it   being  understood   that  their  selection  was  subject
 to  their being  satisfactory  to  the  Directors  of  the  Federal
 Reserve  Bank  of New  York.
                 Secretary's  Note:    Advice  subsequently was  received
                 that  Messrs.   Holmes  and  Coombs  were  satisfactory  to
                 the  Directors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of New
                 York  for  service  in the  respective  capacities
                 indicated.
                 By  unanimous  vote,   the  minutes  of  actions  taken  at  the
 meeting  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee held  on  February 9, 1971,
 were  approved.
                 The  memoranda  of  discussion  for  the  meetings  of  the  Federal
 Open  Market  Committee  held  on  January   12  and  February  9,   1971,   were
 accepted.
                                                              -5
3/9/71
                The  reports  of  audit  of  the  System Open Market Account  and
of   foreign  currency  transactions,  made  by  the  Board's  Division
 of  Federal  Reserve  Bank  Operations  as  at  the  close  of  business
on  September  25,  1970,  and  submitted  by  Mr.  Schaeffer, Chief
Federal  Reserve Examiner, were  accepted.
                It was  agreed  to  retain  the  procedure,  most recently
reaffirmed  on March  10,  1970, whereby,  in  addition to  members and
 officers  of  the  Committee  and Reserve  Bank  Presidents  not  currently
members  of  the Committee,  minutes  and  other  records  could  be  made
available  to  any  other  employee  of  the Board  of Governors  or  of  a
 Federal  Reserve Bank with  the  approval  of  a member  of  the  Committee
 or another  Reserve Bank  President, with  notice  to  the  Secretary.
 It was also agreed  to authorize  the  Secretary  to  act on  the
Chairman's  behalf  in  considering  proposals  for  the  addition  of
members  of  the  Board's  staff  to  the  list  of  those  with access  to
 Committee  minutes  and  other  records.
                Consideration was  then  given  to  the  continuing  authorizations
 of  the  Committee,  according  to  the customary  practice of  reviewing
 such matters  at  the  first  meeting  in  March  of  every  year.
                Secretary's Note:    It  had  been agreed  at  the
                meeting  on  March  10,  1970,  that  certain authori
                zations  among  those  that  the Committee  had
                reviewed  annually  in  the  past would remain
                effective  until  otherwise  directed  by  the  Committee,
                and would  no  longer  be  submitted routinely  for
                review  each  year.    Instead,it  was  understood  that
                these  authorizations would  be called  to  the
                Committee's  attention  before  the  first  meeting  in
                March  of  each year  and  that members  would  be  given
3/9/71
                an  opportunity  to  raise  any  questions  they  had
                concerning  them.   Accordingly,  copies  of  the  autho
                rizations  in question  (listcd  below)  had  been
                distributed  to  the  Committee  on  January  21,    1971,
                with a  request  that  the  members  advise  the
                Secretariat  if  they  wished  to have  any  placed on
                the  agenda  for  consideration  at  today's  meeting.
                No  such requests were  received.
                The  authorizations  in  question  were  as  follows:
                1.   Procedure  for  allocations  of  securities  in  the
                           System Open  Market  Account.
                2.   Distribution  list  for  periodic reports  prepared
                           by  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of New York.
                3.   Authority  for  the  Chairman  to  appoint  a Federal
                           Reserve Bank  as  agent  to  operate  the  System
                           Account  in case  the  New York Bank was  unable
                            to function.
                4.   Resolutions  providing  for  continued  operation  of
                            the Committee,  and  for  certain actions  by  the
                            Reserve  Banks,  during  an  emergency.
                5.   Resolution  relating  to examinations  of  the
                            System  Open Market Account.
                It was  agreed  that  the authorization  for  the  lending of
 Government  securities  from  the  System Open Market  Account,  contained
 in  paragraph  3 of  the  continuing  authority directive  with  respect  to
 domestic  open  market  operations,  should  be  retained  at  this  time.
                By  unanimous  vote,   the  continuing  authority  directive  to
 the  Federal  Reserve  Bank of  New  York with  respect  to  domestic
 open  market  operations,   as  shown  below,   was  reaffirmed:
                 1.     The  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  authorizes
         and  directs  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,   to
         the  extent  necessary  to  carry  out  the  most  recent
         current  economic  policy directive  adopted  at a meeting
         of  the Committee:
                        (a)     To  buy  or  sell  U.  S.  Government
                 securities  in   the  open  market,   from  or  to
                Government  securities  dealers  and  foreign
                 and  international  accounts  maintained  at
3/9/71
                the  Federal  Reserve  Bank of  New  York, on
                a  cash, regular,  or  deferred  delivery  basis,
                for  the  System  Open Market  Account  at market
                prices  and,  for  such Account,  to  exchange
                maturing  U.S.  Government  securities  with  the
                Treasury  or  allow  them  to  mature  without
                replacement;  provided  that  the  aggregate
                amount  of  such  securities  held  in  such Account
                at  the  close  of  business  on  the  day  of  a
                meeting  of  the  Committee at  which  action  is
                taken with  respect  to  a current  economic  policy
                directive  shall  not be  increased  or  decreased
                by  more  than  $2.0  billion  during  the  period
                commencing  with  the  opening  of  business  on  the
                day  following  such  meeting  and  ending with  the
                 close  of  business  on  the day  of  the  next  such
                meeting;
                         (b)   To  buy  or  sell  prime  bankers'
                 acceptances  of  the kinds  designated  in  the
                 Regulation  of  the Federal  Open   Market  Committee
                 in  the  open  market,  from  or  to  acceptance
                 dealers  and  foreign accounts  maintained  at  the
                 Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York,  on  a  cash,
                 regular,  or  deferred  delivery basis,  for  the
                 account  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                 New  York  at narket  discount rates;  provided
                 that  the  aggregate  amount  of bankers'  accep
                 tances  held  at  any  one  time  shall  not  exceed
                 (1)    $125  million  or  (2)   10  per  cent  of  the
                 total  of  bankers'  acceptances  outstanding  as
                 shown  in  the most  recent  acceptance  survey
                 conducted  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                 New York,  whichever  is  the  lower;
                          (c)   To  buy  U.S.  Government  securities,
                 obligations  that  are  direct  obligations  of,  or
                 fully  guaranteed  as  to  principal  and  interest
                 by, any  agency  of  the  United  States,  and  prime
                 bankers'  acceptances  with  maturities  of
                 6 months  or  less  at  the  time  of  purchase,  from
                 nonbank  dealers  for  the  account  of  the  Federal
                 Reserve  Bank  of  New  York under  agreements  for
                 repurchase  of  such  securities,  obligations,  or
                 acceptances  in  15  calendar  days  or  less,  at  rates
                 not  less  than  (1) the  discount  rate  of  the
 Bank  of  New  York under  agreements  for
                 repurchase  of  such  securities,  obligations,  or
                 acceptances  in  15  calendar  days  or  less,  at  rates
                 not  less  than  (1) the  discount  rate  of  the

