                    Meeting  of  Federal  Open Market  Committee
                                             March  21,  1972
                                         MINUTES  OF  ACTIONS
               A  meeting  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee was  held
in  the  offices  of the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve
System  in Washington, D.  C.,   on Tuesday, March  21,  1972,  at
9:30  a.m.
                PRESENT:    Mr.  Burns,  Chairman
                                  Mr.   Hayes,   Vice  Chairman
                                  Mr.  Brimmer
                                  Mr.  Coldwell
                                  Mr.   Daane
                                  Mr.  Eastburn
                                  Mr. MacLaury
                                  Mr. Maisel
                                  Mr. Mitchell
                                  Mr.   Robertson
                                  Mr.  Sheehan
                                  Mr.  Winn
                                  Messrs.  Francis,  Heflin,  Mayo,  and  Swan,
                                         Alternate  Members  of   the  Federal  Open
                                         Market  Committee
                                  Messrs.  Morris,  Kimbrel,  and  Clay,  Presidents
                                          of the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  Boston,
                                         Atlanta,  and  Kansas  City,  respectively
                                          Mr. Holland,  Secretary
                                          Mr.  Broida, Deputy Secretary
                                          Messrs.  Altmann,  Bernard, and  Molony,
                                                 Assistant  Secretaries
                                          Mr.  Hackley, General  Counsel
                                          Mr.  Partee, Senior  Economist
                                          Mr. Axilrod,  Economist  (Domestic Finance)
                                          Mr.  Solomon,  Economist  (International Finance)
                                          Messrs.  Boehne,  Bryant,  Gramley,  Green,
                                                 Hersey, Hocter,  Kareken, and  Link,
                                                 Associate  Economists
                                         Mr.  Holmes,  Manager,  System Open  Market  Account
                                         Mr.  Coombs,  Special  Manager,  System Open Market
                                                 Account
3/21/72
                                           Mr.  O'Connell,  General  Counsel,  Board  of
                                                   Governors
                                            Messrs.  Keir,  Pierce,  Wernick,  and
                                                   Williams,  Advisers,  Division  of
                                                    Research  and  Statistics,  Board  of
                                                   Governors
                                            Mr. Wendel,  Chief,  Government  Finance
                                                   Section,  Division  of  Research  and
                                                   Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Miss  Eaton, Open  Market  Secretariat
                                                   Assistant,  Office  of  the  Secretary,
                                                   Board  of  Governors
                                           Messrs.  Eisenmenger,  Parthemos,  Taylor,
                                                   Scheld,  Andersen,  and  Tow,  Senior  Vice
                                                   Presidents,  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of
                                                   Boston,  Richmond,  Atlanta,  Chicago,
                                                   St.  Louis,  and  Kansas  City,  respectively
                                           Mr.  Debs,  Vice  President,  Federal  Reserve
                                                   Bank  of  New  York
                                           Mr.  Lynn,  Director  of  Research,  Federal
                                                   Reserve  Bank  of  San  Francisco
                                           Mr.  Cooper,  Assistant  Vice  President,
                                                   Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York
                The  Secretary  reported   that  advices  had  been   received  of
 the  election  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  members  and  alternate
members  of   the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  for  the  term  of  one
year  beginning  March   1,    1972;  that  it    appeared  that  such  persons
were  legally  qualified  to  serve;  and  that  they  had  executed  their
 oaths  of  office.
                The  elected  members  and  alternates  were  as  follows:
          Alfred  Hayes,   President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                New York, with  William  F.  Treiber,  First  Vice  President
                of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  as  alternate;
          David  P.  Eastburn,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank
                of  Philadelphia,   with  Aubrey  N.   Heflin,   President  of
                 the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Richmond,  as  alternate;
                                                         -3
3/21/72
          Willis  J. Winn, President  of  the  Federal  Reserve Bank of
                Cleveland, with  Robert  P. Mayo,  President  of  the
                Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Chicago,  as  alternate;
          Bruce K. MacLaury,  President of  the  Federal  Reserve Bank
                of Minneapolis,  with Eliot  J.  Swan,  President  of  the
                Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  San Francisco,  as  alternate;
          Philip E.  Coldwell,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank
                of Dallas,  with  Darryl  R. Francis,  President  of  the
                Federal Reserve  Bank of  St.  Louis,  as  alternate.
                By  unanimous vote,  the  following  officers  of  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee  were  elected  to  serve  until  the election  of
 their  successors at  the  first  meeting  of  the Committee  after
 February  28,  1973,  with  the  understandings  (1) that  in  the  event
 of  the  discontinuance  of  their  official  connection with  the Board
 of Governors  or with  a Federal  Reserve  Bank,  as  the  case might  be,
 they  would  cease  to have any  official  connection with  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee;  and  (2) that insofar  as  the  titles  of  the
 positions  to which  they  were elected  differed  from those hereto
 fore specified  in  the  Committee's  By-Laws  and  Rules  of  Organization,
 conforming  changes  were to  be made  in  those  documents:
          Arthur  F. Burns                                               Chairman
          Alfred Hayes                                                   Vice  Chairman
          Robert  C. Holland                                             Secretary
          Arthur L.  Broida                                             Deputy  Secretary
          Murray Altmann,
              Normand  R.V. Bernard,
              and  Charles  Molony                                      Assistant  Secretaries
          Howard H.  Hackley                                             General  Counsel
          David  B. Hexter                                              Assistant  General  Counsel
          J. Charles  Partee                                             Senior  Economist
          Stephen H. Axilrod                                             Economist  (Domestic Finance)
          Robert  Solomon                                               Economist  (International
                                                                             Finance)
                                                          -4
3/21/72
          Edward G.  Boehne,  Ralph  C.
              Bryant,  Lyle E.  Gramley,
              Ralph T.  Green, A.B.  Hersey,
             William J. Hocter,  John  H.
              Kareken, and  Robert  G. Link                             Associate  Economists
                             Secretary's  Note:     In  consequence  of  the
                             foregoing  action,  the  opening  sentences  of
                             Sections  2,  3, and  6  of Article  II  of  the
                             Committee's  By-Laws,  and  the  first  sentence
                             of  Section  3 of  the  Committee's  Rules  of
                             Organization,  were  amended  to  read  as  follows:
          By-Laws:
                                                      *    *    *
                                        ARTICLE  II.  OFFICERS
                   Section  2.   Secretary  and  Deputy  and  Assistant
          Secretaries  - At  its  first  meeting  on  or  after  March  1
          of  each  year,  the  Committee shall  elect  a  Secretary
          and  one  or  more Deputy  and Assistant  Secretaries  to
          serve  until  the  first  meeting  on  or  after March  1 of
          the  next  year.  . .
                    Section 3.   Economists  -  At  its  first  meeting  on
          or  after March  1 of  each  year,  the  Committee  shall
          elect  one  or  more  Economists  to  serve  until  the  first
          meeting  on  or  after  March  1 of  the  next  year.    The
          Committee  shall  also  from  time  to  time,  as  it may  decide,
          designate  one  or  more  of  its  elected  Economists  as
          Senior  or  Associate Economists,  or  otherwise  qualify
          their  titles.   The  Economists   shall  prepare  for  the
          use  of  the  Committee and  present  to  it  such  informa
          tion  about  business  and  credit  conditions  as  will
          assist  the  Committee  in  the determination  of  open
          market  policies,  and  shall  perform such  other duties
          as  the  Committee  may  require.
                                                      *
                                                           -5
3/21/72
                    Section  6.   Filling  Vacancies  - At  any  meeting  the
          Committee  may  fill  any vacancy  in  the  offices  described
          in  this  Article.
          Rules  of  Organization:
                                          SECTION  3  -   PERSONNEL
                     (a) Official  Staff.-The  official  staff  of  the  Federal
           Open  Market  Committee  includes  its  Secretary, Deputy
           Secretary,  and  Assistant  Secretaries,  General  Counsel  and
          Assistant  General  Counsel,  and  Senior  Economist,  Economists,
           and  Associate  Economists,  who  perform  the  duties  indicated
           by  their  titles   .   .  .
                By  unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York was
 selected  to  execute  transactions  for  the  System Open Market  Account
 until  the  adjournment  of  the  first  meeting  of  the Federal  Open Market
 Committee after  February  28,  1973.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  Alan R.  Holmes  and  Charles  A.  Coombs
 were  selected  to  serve  at  the  pleasure  of  the  Federal  Open  Market
 Committee  as  Manager  of  the System  Open  Market Account  and  as
 Special  Manager  for  foreign  currency  operations  for  such  Account,
 respectively,  it  being  understood  that  their  selection was  subject
 to  their  being  satisfactory  to  the Directors  of  the  Federal  Reserve
 Bank  of  New  York.
                               Secretary's  Note:    Advice  subsequently
                              was  received  that  Messrs.  Holmes  and
                               Coombs  were  satisfactory  to  the  Board  of
                               Directors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                              New  York  for  service  in  the  respective
                               capacities  indicated.
                                                           -6
3/21/72
                By  unanimous vote,  the  action  of  Committee  members  on
 February  29,  1972,  increasing  from  $2 billion  to  $3 billion  the
 limit  on  changes  between  Committee  meetings  in  System Account
holdings  of  U.S.  Government  and  Federal  agency  securities  specified
 in  paragraph  1(a)  of  the  continuing  authority  directive,  was  ratified.
                By  unanimous  vote,  the  limit  on  changes  between  Committee
meetings  in  System Account  holdings  of  U.S.  Government  and  Federal
 agency  securities  specified  in  paragraph  1(a)  of  the  continuing
 authority  directive  was  reduced   from  $3 billion  to  $2 billion.
                By  unanimous  vote,  the  action  of  Committee  members   on
March  7,  1972,  suspending  until  close  of  business  on  March  21,
 1972,  the  lower  limit  on  repurchase  agreement  rates  specified  in
                                                                                                                             1/
 paragraph  1(c)  of  continuing  authority  directive,  was  ratified.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  minutes  of  actions  taken  at  the
 meeting  of  the Federal  Open  Market  Committee  on  January  11,   1972,
 were  approved.
                 The memoranda  of  discussion  for  the  meetings  of  the  Federal
 Open  Market  Committee  on  January  11  and  February  14,  1972,  were
 accepted.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  System  open  market  transactions  in
 foreign  currencies  during  the  period  February  15  through  March  20,
 1972,  were  approved,  ratified,  and  confirmed.
       1/   Messrs.  Brimmer  and  Robertson  dissented  from  the  March  7
 action.   Having  so  recorded  their  positions  they did  not  consider
 it  necessary  to  dissent  also  from  the  ratification.
3/21/72
                By  unanimous  vote, renewal  for  further  periods  of  three
months  of  the  four  System drawings  on  the  National  Bank of  Belgium
 maturing in  the  period  April  4-28,  1972,  was  authorized.
                 It was  agreed  that  a  subcommittee,  consisting  of  the
 Chairman and  Vice Chairman  of  the  Committee and the  Vice
 Chairman of  the Board  of  Governors,  or  designated  alternates,
 should be  authorized  to  act  on  behalf  of  the Committee  with
 respect  to  the  manner  of  effectuating  the  revaluation  clause
 in  the  System's  swap  contract with  the National  Bank  of  Belgium.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  open  market  transactions  in
 Government  securities,  agency  obligations,  and  bankers'  accept
 ances  during  the  period  February  15  through  March  20,  1972,
 were  approved,  ratified,  and  confirmed.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve Bank of  New York
 was  authorized  and  directed,  until  otherwise directed  by  the
 Committee,  to  execute  transactions  in  the  System Account  in
 accordance with  the  following  current  economic  policy  directive:
                     The  information  reviewed  at  this  meeting
           suggests  that  real  output  of  goods  and  services
           is  increasing  in  the  current  quarter  at  about  the
           stepped-up  rate attained  in  the  fourth  quarter  of
           1971.    Several  measures  of  business  activity have
           strengthened  recently  and  demands  for  labor  have
           improved  somewhat,  but  the  unemployment  rate
           remains  high.   Wholesale  prices  continued  to rise
           rapidly  in  January  and  February,  in  part  because
y  and  demands  for  labor  have
           improved  somewhat,  but  the  unemployment  rate
           remains  high.   Wholesale  prices  continued  to rise
           rapidly  in  January  and  February,  in  part  because

