                           Meeting
                                           of  Federal  Open Market  Committee
                                                 MINUTES  OF  ACTIONS
                A  meeting  of  the  Federal Open  Market Committee  was  held
 in  the  offices  of  the  Board  of Governors  of  the Federal  Reserve
System  in Washington, D. C.,  on Tuesday,  January  16,  1973,  at
 9:30  a.m.
                PRESENT:    Mr.  Burns,  Chairman
                                   Mr.   Brimmer
                                   Mr.   Bucher
                                    Mr.   Coldwell
                                    Mr. Daane
                                   Mr.  Eastburn
                                    Mr.  MacLaury
                                    Mr. Mitchell
                                    Mr.   Robertson
                                    Mr.   Sheehan
                                   Mr.  Winn
                                    Mr.  Treiber, Alternate  for  Mr.  Hayes
                                   Messrs.  Heflin,  Mayo,  and  Balles,
                                           Alternate  Members  of  the Federal
                                            Open Market  Committee
                                    Messrs.  Morris,  Kimbrel, and  Clay,  Presidents
                                            of  the  Federal Reserve  Banks  of Boston,
                                           Atlanta,  and  Kansas  City,  respectively
                                            Mr.  Holland,  Secretary
                                            Mr.  Broida,  Deputy  Secretary
                                            Messrs.  Altmann  and  Bernard,  Assistant
                                                    Secretaries
                                            Mr. Hackley,  General  Counsel
                                            Mr. O'Connell, Assistant  General  Counsel
                                            Mr. Partee,  Senior  Economist
                                            Mr. Axilrod,  Economist  (Domestic Finance)
                                            Messrs.  Bryant,  Gramley,  Green, Hersey, and
                                                   Hocter,  Associate  Economists
                                            Mr. Holmes,  Manager,  System Open  Market Account
1/16/73
                                           Mr.  Melnicoff, Deputy  Executive  Director,
                                                   Board  of  Governors
                                            Mr. Coyne,  Special Assistant  to  the Board
                                                    of Governors
                                            Mr.  Chase, Associate  Director, Division  of
                                                    Research  and  Statistics,  Board  of
                                                    Governors
                                            Messrs.  Keir,  Pierce, Wernick, and  Williams,
                                                   Advisers,  Division  of  Research  and
                                                    Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                            Mr.  Pizer,  Adviser, Division  of  International
                                                    Finance,  Board  of  Governors
                                            Mr. Wendel,  Chief,  Government  Finance Section,
                                                   Division  of  Research  and  Statistics,
                                                    Board  of  Governors
                                            Mrs.  Rehanek, Open  Market  Secretariat  Assistant,
                                                    Office  of  the  Secretary,  Board  of Governors
                                            Mrs.  Sherman, Secretary,  Office  of  the
                                                    Secretary,  Board  of  Governors
                                            Mr. Leonard,  First  Vice  President,  Federal
                                                    Reserve  Bank  of St.  Louis
                                            Messrs.  Eisenmenger,  Debs,  Parthemos,  Taylor,
                                                    Scheld,  and Andersen,  Senior  Vice
                                                    Presidents,  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of
                                                    Boston, New York, Richmond,  Atlanta,
                                                    Chicago,  and  St.  Louis,  respectively
                                            Messrs.  Bodner  and  Doll,  Vice Presidents,
                                                    Federal  Reserve Banks  of New  York  and
                                                    Kansas  City,  respectively
                                            Mr. Davis,  Adviser, Research  and  Statistics,
                                                    Federal  Reserve Bank  of  New York
                                            Mr. Feldberg,  Secretary  and  Assistant  Counsel,
                                                    Federal  Reserve Bank  of  New York
                                            Mr.  Kaminow,  Research Officer  and  Economist,
                                                    Federal  Reserve Bank  of  Philadelphia
                                            Mr.  Sandberg,  Manager, Acceptance  and  Securities
                                                    Departments,  Federal  Reserve  Bank of  New York
                                            Mr.  Bisignano,  Economist,  Federal  Reserve
                                                    Bank  of  San  Francisco
                                             Mr.  Miller,  Economist,  Federal  Reserve  Bank
                                                     of  Minneapolis
1/16/73
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  minutes  of actions  taken  at  the
meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  on November  20-21,
 1972,  were  approved.
                 The  memorandum of  discussion  for  the  meeting  of  the  Federal
 Open  Market  Committee  on  November  20-21,  1972,  was  accepted.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  System open market  transactions  in
 foreign  currencies  during  the  period  December  19,   1972,  through
 January  15,   1973,  were  approved,  ratified,  and  confirmed.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  renewal  for  further  periods  of  3  months
 of  the  eight  System drawings  on  the  National  Bank  of  Belgium, the
 two  drawings  on  the  Swiss  National  Bank, and  the  drawing  on  the
 Bank  for  International Settlements  maturing  at  various  dates   in
 the  period February  2-23,  1973,  was  authorized.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  open  market  transactions  in  Govern
 ment  securities,  agency  obligations,  and bankers'  acceptances
 during  the  period December  19,  1972,  through  January  15,   1973,  were
 approved,  ratified,  and  confirmed.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  Federal Reserve  Bank  of  New York
 was  authorized  and  directed,  until  otherwise  directed  by  the
 Committee,  to  execute  transactions  for  the  System Account  in
 accordance  with  the  following  current  economic  policy  directive:
                     The  information  reviewed  at  this  meeting  suggests
           that  real  output  of  goods  and  services  expanded much
           more  rapidly  in  the  fourth  quarter  than  in  the  third
           quarter,  and  the  unemployment  rate  declined.    Wage
1/16/73
          rates  have  increased  more  rapidly  in recent  months  than
          earlier  in the  year.    Consumer prices  rose considerably
          again  in November.   Wholesale prices  of  farm  and  food
          products  advanced  sharply  in December  but  those  of
          industrial  commodities  increased  little.    On  January  11
          the  President announced  Phase  III  of  the  economic  stabi
          lization program, which  has  among  its  major  objectives
          a further  reduction  in  the  rate  of  inflation.   The over
          all deficit  in  the  U.S.  balance  of payments  has  remained
          substantial  in recent  months,  and U.S.  merchandise  imports
          rose more  than  exports  in November.
                    Growth  in  the  narrowly  and  broadly defined  money
          stock  was  exceptionally  rapid  in  December,  after  having
          been moderate  on  average  during  the  preceding  4 months.
          In  recent  weeks  interest  rates  on  both  short-  and  long
          term securities  have  risen moderately.   Effective
          January  15,  Federal Reserve  discount  rates  were  raised
          one-half  of  a percentage  point  to  5 per  cent.
                    In  light  of  the  foregoing  developments,  it is the
          policy  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  to  foster
          financial conditions  consonant  with  the  aims  of  the
          economic  stabilization  program,  including  further  abate
          ment  of  inflationary pressures,  sustainable  growth  in
          real output  and  employment,  and  progress  toward  equilib
          rium  in the  country's  balance  of payments.
                    To  implement  this  policy,  while  taking account  of
          the  forthcoming  Treasury  financing  and  possible  credit
          market  developments,  the  Committee  seeks  to  achieve
          bank  reserve  and  money market  conditions  that  will
          support  slower  growth  in monetary  aggregates  over  the
          months  ahead  than  occurred  in  the  second  half of  last
          year.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  Committee's  By-Laws  were  rescinded.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  Committee's  Regulation Relating  to
Open  Market Operations  of Federal Reserve  Banks  was  revised,
 effective  February  1, 1973,  to  read  as  follows:
1/16/73
                    REGULATION RELATING  TO  OPEN  MARKET  OPERATIONS
                                        OF  FEDERAL  RESERVE  BANKS
                                        SECTION  270.1  - AUTHORITY
                    This  Part  is  issued  by  the  Federal  Open  Market
          Committee  (the  "Committee")  pursuant  to  authority
           conferred upon  it  by  sections  12A  and  14  of  the
          Federal  Reserve Act  (12  U.S.C.  §§  263,  355).
                                        SECTION  270.2  - DEFINITIONS
                     (a) The  term  "obligations"  means  Government
           securities,  U. S. agency  securities,  bankers'  accep
           tances,  bills  of  exchange,  cable  transfers,  bonds,
           notes,  warrants,  debentures,  and  other  obligations
           that  Federal Reserve  Banks  are  authorized  by  law to
          purchase  and  sell.
                     (b) The  term  "Government  securities"  means  direct
           obligations  of  the  United  States  (i.e.,  U.  S. bonds,
           notes,  certificates  of  indebtedness,  and Treasury  bills)
           and  obligations  fully  guaranteed  as  to  principal  and
           interest by  the United  States.
                     (c) The  term  "U. S. agency  securities"  means  obli
           gations  that  are  direct  obligations  of,  or  are  fully
           guaranteed  as  to  principal  and  interest  by,  any  agency
           of  the  United  States.
                     (d) The  term  "System Open  Market Account"  means
           the  obligations  acquired  pursuant  to  authorizations  and
           directives  issued  by  the  Committee  and  held  on  behalf
           of  all Federal  Reserve  Banks.
                                   SECTION  270.3  - GOVERNING  PRINCIPLES
                     As  required  by  section  12A  of  the  Federal  Reserve
           Act,  the  time,  character,  and  volume  of  all  purchases
           and  sales  of  obligations  in  the  open  market  by  Federal
           Reserve  Banks  are  governed  with  a view  to  accommodating
           commerce and  business  and  with  regard  to  their  bearing
           upon  the  general  credit  situation  of  the  country.
1/16/73
                          SECTION  270.4  -  TRANSACTIONS  IN OBLIGATIONS
                    (a) Each  Federal  Reserve  Bank  shall  engage  in  open
          market  operations  under  section  14  of  the  Federal  Reserve
          Act  only  in accordance with  this  Part and  with  the  autho
          rizations  and  directives  issued  by  the  Committee  from
          time  to  time,  and  no  Reserve  Bank  shall  decline  to  engage
          in  open market  operations  as  directed  by  the  Committee.
                    (b) Transactions  for  the  System  Open Market Account
          shall  be  executed  by a  Federal  Reserve  Bank  selected  by
          the  Committee.    The  participations  of  the  several  Federal
          Reserve  Banks  in  such  Account  and  in  the  profits  and
          losses  on  transactions  for  the  Account  shall be  allocated
          in  accordance  with principles  determined  by  the  Committee
          from  time  to  time.
                     (c) In accordance  with  such  limitations,  terms,  and
          conditions  as  are  prescribed  by  law  and  in  authorizations
          and  directives  issued  by  the  Committee,  the Reserve Bank
          selected  by  the  Committee  is  authorized  and  directed
                            (1) To  buy  and  sell  Government  securities  and
          U.  S.  agency  securities  in  the  open  market  for  the  System
          Open Market  Account,  and  to  exchange  maturing  securities
          with  the  issuer;
                             (2) To  buy and  sell  bankers'  acceptances  of  the
          kinds  made  eligible  for  purchase  under  Part  202  of  this
           chapter  [Regulation B]   in  the  open market  for  its  own
          account;
                             (3) To  buy  Government  securities,  U.  S.  agency
           securities,  and  bankers'  acceptances  of the  kinds  described
          above,  under  agreements  for  repurchase  of  such  obligations,
           in  the  open market  for  its  own  account;  and
                             (4) To  buy  and  sell  foreign  currencies  in  the
           form of  cable  transfers  in  the  open market  for  the  System
          Open  Market  Account  and  to  maintain  for  such  Account
           reciprocal  currency arrangements  with  foreign  banks  among
           those  designated  by  the  Board  of Governors  of  the  Federal
          Reserve  System  under  § 214.5  of  this  chapter  [Regulation  N].
                     (d) In accordance  with  such  limitations,  terms,  and
           conditions  as  are  prescribed  by  law and  in  authorizations
           and  directives  issued  by  the  Committee,  the  Reserve  Bank
1/16/73
           selected  by  the  Committee  (or,  if  that Bank  is  closed,
          any  other  Federal Reserve  Bank)  is  authorized  and  directed,
           for  its  own  account  or  the  System  Open Market  Account,  to
          purchase  directly  from the  United  States  such  amounts  of
          Government  securities  as  may  be  necessary  from time  to
           time  for  the  temporary  accommodation  of  the  Treasury Depart
          ment.
                     (e) The Federal  Reserve  Banks  are  authorized  and
           directed  to  engage  in such  other  operations  as  the  Commit
           tee  may  from  time  to  time  determine  to  be reasonably  nec
           essary  to  the  effective  conduct  of  open market  operations
           and  the  effectuation  of  open market  policies.
                By  unanimous  vote,  the  Committee's  Rules  of Organization
were  revised,  effective  February  1,  1973,  to  read as  follows:
                                            RULES  OF ORGANIZATION
                                            SECTION  1  - AUTHORITY
                    These  rules are  issued  by  the Federal Open  Market  Com
          mittee  (the  "Committee")  pursuant  to  the  requirement  of
           section  552  of  Title  5 of  the  United  States  Code  that  every
           agency  shall  publish  in  the Federal  Register  a  description
           of  its  central  and  field organization,
                              SECTION  2  -  COMPOSITION  OF  COMMITTEE
                     (a) Members.  -  The  Committee  consists  of  the  seven
          members  of  the  Board  of Governors  of  the  Federal Reserve
           System  (the  "Board")  and  five  representatives  of  the
           Federal  Reserve Banks,  each  of whom  is  a  President  or  a
           First  Vice  President  of  a Reserve  Bank.
                     (b) Reserve  Bank representatives.  - The  representatives
           of  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks,  and  an alternate  for  each
           representative,  are  elected  by  the  boards  of  directors  of
           the Reserve  Banks  in  accordance  with  section  12A  of  the
           Federal  Reserve Act  (12  U.S.C.  § 263)  for  terms  of  one  year
           commencing  on  March  1 of  each  year.    Prior  to  the  first
           meeting  of  the  Committee  on  or  after  March  1 of  each year,
           each  member  of  the  Committee  representing  the  Federal
           Reserve  Banks  shall  cause  a  record  of  his  election  and  of
           the  election  of  his  alternate  to be  forwarded  to  the
           Secretary  of  the  Committee.    If any  question  is  raised  as
           to  the  election  or  eligibility  of  a member  or  alternate,
f  his  election  and  of
           the  election  of  his  alternate  to be  forwarded  to  the
           Secretary  of  the  Committee.    If any  question  is  raised  as
           to  the  election  or  eligibility  of  a member  or  alternate,

