                          Meeting
                                          of  Federal  Open  Market  Committee
                                                March  19-20,  1973
                                                MINUTES  OF ACTIONS
                A  meeting  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee was  held
in  the  offices  of  the  Board of  Governors  of  the  Federal Reserve
 System  in Washington, D.  C.,   on  Monday and  Tuesday, March  19-20,
 1973,  beginning  at  4:00  p.m.  on  Monday.
                PRESENT:    Mr.   Burns,  Chairman
                                     Mr.   Hayes,  Vice  Chairman
                                    Mr.   Balles
                                    Mr.   Brimmer
                                    Mr.   Bucher
                                    Mr.  Daane
                                    Mr.  Francis
                                    Mr.   Mayo
                                     Mr.   Mitchell
                                     Mr.   Morris
                                     Mr.  Robertson
                                     Mr.  Sheehan
                                     Messrs.  Clay,  Eastburn,  Kimbrel,  and  Winn,
                                             Alternate Members  of  the  Federal  Open
                                             Market  Committee
                                     Messrs.  MacLaury  and  Coldwell,  Presidents
                                             of  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of
                                             Minneapolis  and  Dallas,  respectively
                                             Mr.  Holland,  Secretary
                                             Mr.  Broida,  Deputy  Secretary
                                             Messrs.  Altmann  and  Bernard, Assistant
                                                     Secretaries
                                             Mr.  Hackley,  General  Counsel
                                             Mr.  O'Connell,  Assistant  General  Counsel
                                             Mr.  Partee,  Senior  Economist
                                             Mr.  Axilrod,  Economist   (Domestic Finance)
                                             Messrs.  Bryant,  Eisenmenger,  Garvy,  Gramley,
                                                     Hersey,  Reynolds,./    Scheld,  and  Sims,
                                                     Associate  Economists
       1/ Attended  Tuesday  session  only.
3/19/73
                                          Mr.  Holmes,  Manager,  System Open Market
                                                  Account
                                          Mr.  Coombs,  Special  Manager,  System  Open
                                                  Market  Account
                                          Mr.  Melnicoff,1/ Deputy  Executive Director,
                                                  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr.  O'Brien,  Special  Assistant  to  the
                                                  Board  of  Governors
                                          Messrs.  Keir, Pierce,  Wernick, and Williams,
                                                  Advisers,  Division  of Research and
                                                  Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr.  Gemmill,  Adviser,  Division  of  International
                                                  Finance, Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr.  Zeisel,1/  Associate Adviser,  Division  of
                                                  Research  and  Statistics,  Board  of Governors
                                          Mr.  Kichline,1/  Chief,  Capital  Markets
                                                  Section, Division  of  Research and
                                                  Statistics, Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr.  Wendel,  Chief,  Government Finance  Section,
                                                  Division  of Research  and  Statistics,
                                                  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr.  Enzler,1 / Economist,  Division  of  Research
                                                  and  Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mrs.  Rehanek,  Open Market  Secretariat
                                                  Assistant,  Office  of  the  Secretary,
                                                  Board of  Governors
                                          Mrs.  Sherman,2/  Secretary,  Office  of  the
                                                  Secretary,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Messrs. Black  and  Fossum, First  Vice Presidents,
                                                  Federal Reserve  Banks  of  Richmond  and
                                                  Atlanta, respectively
                                           Messrs.  Boehne,  Parthemos,  and  Doll,  Senior
                                                  Vice Presidents,  Federal  Reserve  Banks
                                                  of  Philadelphia, Richmond,  and  Kansas
                                                  City,  respectively
                                           Messrs.  Hocter,  Jordan,  and  Green,  Vice
                                                   Presidents,  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of
                                                   Cleveland,  St.  Louis,  and  Dallas.
                                                   respectively
       1/ Attended Monday  session  only.
       2/ Attended Tuesday  session  only.
3/19-20/73
                                            Mr.  Meek,  Assistant  Vice  President,
                                                    Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York
                                            Mr.  Kareken,  Economic  Adviser,  Federal
                                                    Reserve  Bank  of  Minneapolis
                The  Secretary  reported  that  advices  had  been  received  of
 the  election  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of members  and  alternate
members  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  for  the  term  of  one
year  beginning  March  1,  1973;  that  it  appeared  that  such  persons
were  legally  qualified  to  serve;  and  that  they  had  executed  their
 oaths  of  office.
                 The  elected  members  and  alternates  were  as  follows:
           Frank  E. Morris,  President  of  the Federal  Reserve  Bank
                 of  Boston, with  David  P.  Eastburn,  President  of  the
                 Federal  Reserve  Bank  of Philadelphia,  as  alternate;
           Alfred Hayes,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                 New York, with  William  F. Treiber,  First  Vice President
                 of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  as  alternate;
           Robert  P.  Mayo, President  of  the  Federal  Reserve Bank  of
                 Chicago,  with Willis  J. Winn,  President  of  the  Federal
                 Reserve  Bank  of  Cleveland,  as  alternate;
           Darryl  R.  Francis,  President  of  the Federal  Reserve  Bank
                 of  St.  Louis,  with Monroe  Kimbrel,  President  of  the
                 Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Atlanta, as  alternate;
           John  J. Balles,   President  of  the Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                 San  Francisco,  with  George  H.  Clay,  President  of  the
                 Federal  Reserve  Bank of  Kansas  City,  as  alternate.
                 Secretary's  Note:    All  of  the  actions  listed
                 below were  taken  on Tuesday,  March  20,  1973.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  following  officers of  the Federal
 Open  Market  Committee were  elected  to  serve until  the  election of
3/20/73
 their  successors  at  the  first meeting  of  the Committee  after
 February 28,  1974,  with the understanding  that  in  the  event  of
 the discontinuance  of  their  official  connection with  the Board
 of  Governors  or  with  a  Federal  Reserve  Bank,   as  the  case might
be,  they would cease  to  have  any  official  connection with  the
 Federal Open Market  Committee:
          Arthur  F.   Burns                                               Chairman
          Alfred  Hayes                                                    Vice  Chairman
          Robert  C. Holland                                               Secretary
          Arthur  L. Broida                                                Deputy  Secretary
          Murray  Altmann  and
              Normand R. V. Bernard                                        Assistant  Secretaries
          Howard  H. Hackley                                               General  Counsel
          Thomas  J. O'Connell                                             Assistant  General  Counsel
          J. Charles Partee                                                Senior  Economist
          Stephen H. Axilrod                                               Economist  (Domestic Finance)
          Robert  Solomon 1/                                               Economist  (International
                                                                                Finance)
          Leonall  C. Andersen,  Ralph  C.
              Bryant, Robert W.  Eisenmenger,
              George  Garvy,  Lyle  E. Gramley,
              A. B. Hersey,  John E. Reynolds,
              Karl  A. Scheld,  and Kent  0.
              Sims                                                         Associate  Economists
                By  unanimous  vote,  the Federal  Reserve Bank of New York
 was  selected  to  execute  transactions  for  the System Open Market
 Account until  the adjournment  of  the  first meeting of  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee  after February  28,  1974.
                By unanimous  vote,  Section  5 of  the Committee's  Rules  of
 Organization was  amended  to read  as  follows:
      1/ On leave  of  absence.
3/20/73
                                                                -5
          Manager,  Special  Manager,  and  Deputies
                The  Committee  selects  a Manager  of  the  System  Open
          Market  Account  and a  Special  Manager  for  Foreign  Currency
          Operations  for  such  Account,  and  it  may  also  select  a
          Deputy  Manager  and  a Deputy  Special  Manager  for  foreign
          currency  operations.    All  of  the  foregoing  shall  be
          satisfactory  to  the  Federal  Reserve Bank  selected by
           the  Committee  to  execute open  market  transactions  for
           such Account,  and  all  shall  serve  at  the  pleasure  of
          the  Committee.   The  Manager  and  Special  Manager,  or
           their  Deputies,   keep  the  Committee  informed  on  market
           conditions  and  on  transactions  they have  made  and
          render  such  reports  as  the  Committee  may  specify.
                 By  unanimous  vote, Alan  R.  Holmes,  Peter  D.  Sternlight,
 Charles  A.  Coombs,  and  David  E.  Bodner  were  selected  to  serve  at
 the  pleasure of  the Federal  Open Market  Committee as  Manager,
 Deputy Manager,  Special  Manager  for  foreign  currency  operations,
 and Deputy  Special  Manager  for  foreign  currency  operations,
 respectively,  of  the  System  Open Market  Account,  it  being  under
 stood  that  their  selection  was  subject  to  their  being  satisfactory
 to  the Board  of  Directors  of  the  Federal  Reserve Bank  of New  York.
                 Secretary's  Note:    Advice  subsequently  was  received
                 that  Messrs.  Holmes,  Sternlight,  Coombs,  and  Bodner
                 were  satisfactory  to  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the
                 Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York  for  service  in  the
                 respective  capacities  indicated.
                 By unanimous  vote,  the minutes  of  actions  taken  at  the
 meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  on  January  16,  1973,
 were  approved.
                 The memorandum  of  discussion  for  the meeting  of  the Federal
 Open  Market  Committee  on  January  16,   1973,  was  accepted.
3/20/73
                By unanimous  vote,  the System  open market  transactions
 in  foreign  currencies  during  the  period  February  13  through
 March  19,  1973, were  approved,  ratified,  and  confirmed.
                By unanimous  vote, renewal  for  further  periods  of  3
months  of  the  two  System  drawings  on  the National  Bank  of
 Belgium maturing  on April  19  and  26,  1973,  was  authorized.
                By unanimous  vote,  the Committee  authorized  the  Special
 Manager  to undertake  negotiations  looking  toward  increases  in
 System  swap  lines  not  exceeding  $6  billion  in the  aggregate,  on
 the understanding  that  increases  in  individual  swap  lines,  and
 the  corresponding  amendments  to  paragraph  2  of  the authorization
 for  System  foreign  currency  operations,  would become  effective
 upon  approval by  Chairman  Burns,  after  consultation with
 responsible  officials  of  the U.S.  Treasury;  and  on  the  further
 understanding  that  any  increases  made  effective would  not be
 drawn  on until  after  further  consultation  with the  Committee.
                By  unanimous vote,  the open  market  transactions  in
 Government  securities,  agency obligations,  and  bankers'  accep
 tances  during  the period  February  13  through March  19,  1973,
 were  approved,  ratified,  and  confirmed.
                By  unanimous  vote,  the  action  of  Committee members  on
 March  15,  1973,  increasing  the  limit  specified  in paragraph  1(a)
 of  the  continuing  authority  directive  on  changes  between meetings
3/20/73
 of  the  Committee  in  System  holdings  of  U.S.  Government  securities
 and  agency issues  from  $2  billion  to  $3 billion  for  the  period
 through  the  close  of business  March  20,  1973,  was  ratified.
                 By unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York
was  authorized  and  directed,  until  otherwise  directed by  the
 Committee,  to  execute  transactions  for  the  System Account  in
 accordance with  the  following  current  economic  policy  directive
 (later  in  this  meeting  retitled  "domestic  policy  directive"):
                     The  information  reviewed  at  this  meeting  suggests
           continued  substantial  growth  in  real  output  of  goods
           and  services  in  the  current  quarter,  although  at  a
           rate  less  rapid  than  in  the  fourth  quarter  of  1972.
           Over  the  first  2  months  of  this  year,  employment  rose
           strongly but  the  unemployment  rate  remained  about
           5  per  cent.    The  advance  in wage  rates  moderated  from
           the  earlier  rapid  pace,  while  the  rate  of  increase  in
           prices  accelerated.    Prices  of  foods  continued  to
           rise  sharply  both  at  wholesale  and  retail;   in  February,
           moreover,  increases  in  wholesale  prices  of  industrial
           commodities  were  large  and  widespread.    Another wave
           of  speculative  movements  out  of  dollars  into  German
           marks  and  some  other  currencies  developed  at  the
           beginning  of  March  and  led  to  a  decision  by  a number
           of  European  countries  to  float  their  currencies
           jointly.    On  March  16,  after  a  series  of  meetings,
           officials  of  leading  industrial  countries  announced
           a  program  aimed  at  maintaining  orderly  international
           monetary  arrangements.
                     The  narrowly  defined  money  stock  expanded moderately
           in  February,  after  having  changed  little  in  January,  and
           growth  over  recent  months  remained  at  an  average  annual
           rate  of  about  6.5  per  cent.    The  more broadly  defined
           money  stock  continued  to  grow at  a moderate  rate  in
           February  as  inflows  of  consumer-type  time  and  savings
           deposits  to  banks  slowed  sharply.    However,  in  the  face
           of  strong  loan  demand  from  businesses,  and  also  from
te  rate  in
           February  as  inflows  of  consumer-type  time  and  savings
           deposits  to  banks  slowed  sharply.    However,  in  the  face
           of  strong  loan  demand  from  businesses,  and  also  from

