                         Meeting  of  Federal  Open  Market   Committee
                                               March  18-19,    1974
                                               MINUTES  OF  ACTIONS
                A meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  was  held
in   the  offices  of  the  Board  of  Governors   of  the  Federal  Reserve
 System  in   Washington,   D.  C.,    on  Monday  and  Tuesday,   March  18-19,
 1974,   beginning  at  4:00  p.m.   on  Monday.
                PRESENT:    Mr.   Burns,    Chairman
                                   Mr.  Hayes,  Vice  Chairman
                                   Mr.  Black
                                   Mr.   Brimmer
                                   Mr.   Bucher
                                   Mr.    Clay
                                   Mr.   Holland
                                   Mr.  Kimbrel
                                   Mr.  Mitchell
                                   Mr.   Sheehan
                                   Mr.   Wallich
                                   Mr.  Winn
                                   Messrs.   Coldwell,   MacLaury,   Mayo,   and  Morris,
                                           Alternate  Members  of  the  Federal  Open
                                           Market   Committee
                                   Messrs.  Eastburn,  Francis,  and  Balles,  Presidents
                                           of  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  Philadelphia,
                                           St.  Louis,  and  San  Francisco,  respectively
                                                   Broida,   Secretary
                                                   Altmann,  Deputy  Secretary
                                                   Bernard,  Assistant  Secretary
                                                   O'Connell,  General  Counsel
                                                   Partee,  Senior  Economist
                                                   Axilrod,  Economist  (Domestic Finance)
3/18-19/74
                                           Messrs.  Bryant,  Davis,  Doll,  Gramley, 1 /
                                                   Hocter,  Parthemos,  Pierce,1/  and
                                                   Reynolds,1/Associate  Economists
                                           Mr.  Holmes,  Manager,  System Open  Market
                                                  Account
                                           Mr.  Coombs,   Special  Manager,  System  Open
                                                  Market  Account
                                           Mr.  Sternlight,  Deputy  Manager,  System
                                                   Open  Market  Account
                                           Mr.  Melnicoff,./Managing  Director  for
                                                   Operations  and  Supervision,  Board
                                                   of  Governors
                                           Mr.  Coyne,  Assistant  to   the  Board  of
                                                   Governors
                                           Messrs.  Keir and  Williams,  Advisers,
                                                   Division of  Research  and  Statistics,
                                                   Board  of  Governors
                                           Mr.  Wendel,  Assistant  Adviser,  Division
                                                   of  Research  and  Statistics,  Board
                                                   of  Governors
                                           Miss  Pruitt,  Economist,  Open  Market
                                                   Secretariat,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Mrs.  Ferrell,  Open  Market  Secretariat
                                                  Assistant,  Board  of  Governors
                                           Messrs.   Eisenmenger,1/   Boehne,   Taylor,1/
                                                   Scheld,  and  Andersen,/     Senior Vice
                                                   Presidents,  Federal  Reserve  Banks
                                                   of  Boston,  Philadelphia,  Atlanta,
                                                   Chicago,  and  St.  Louis,  respectively
                                           Messrs.  Green and  Sims,  Vice  Presidents,
                                                   Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  Dallas  and
                                                   San  Francisco,  respectively
                                           Mr.  Kareken,1/    Economic  Adviser, Federal
                                                   Reserve  Bank  of  Minneapolis
         1/ Attended  Tuesday  session  only.
3/18-19/74
                 The  Secretary  reported  that advices  had  been  received  of
 the  election  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  members  and  alternate
 members  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee   for  the  term  of  one
 year  beginning  March  1,   1974;   that  it   appeared  that  such  persons
 were  legally  qualified   to  serve;  and   that  they  had  executed  their
 oaths  of  office.
                 The  elected  members  and  alternates  were  as  follows:
           Robert  P.   Black,   President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                 Richmond,  with  Frank  E. Morris,  President  of  the
                 Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Boston,  as  alternate;
           Alfred  Hayes,   President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                 New  York, with  Richard  A.  Debs,  First  Vice  President
                 of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,   as  alternate;
           Willis  J.   Winn,   President   of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                 Cleveland,  with  Robert  P.  Mayo,  President  of  the
                 Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Chicago,  as  alternate;
           Monroe  Kimbrel,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                Atlanta,   with  Philip  E.   Coldwell,   President  of  the
                 Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Dallas,  as  alternate;
           George  H.   Clay,   President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                 Kansas  City,  with  Bruce  K.   MacLaury,   President  of  the
                 Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Minneapolis,  as  alternate.
                 Secretary's  Note:    The  actions   listed  immediately
                below  were  taken  on Monday,  March  18,  1974.
                 By unanimous  vote,  the  following  officers  of  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee were  elected   to  serve  until  the  election of
 their  successors   at  the  first                       meeting  of  the  Committee  after
 February  28,   1975,   with  the  understanding  that  in   the  event  of
 the  discontinuance  of  their  official  connection  with  the  Board
3/18-19/74
 of  Governors or  with a Federal  Reserve  Bank,  as  the  case  might
 be,  they would  cease  to  have  any  official  connection  with  the
 Federal  Open Market  Committee:
          Arthur  F.  Burns                                            Chairman
          Alfred  Hayes                                                Vice  Chairman
          Arthur  L.  Broida                                           Secretary
          Murray Altmann                                               Deputy  Secretary
          Normand  R.V.   Bernard                                      Assistant  Secretary
          Thomas  J.  O'Connell                                        General  Counsel
          Edward  G.  Guy                                              Deputy  General  Counsel
          John  Nicoll                                                 Assistant  General  Counsel
          J.  Charles  Partee                                          Senior  Economist
          Stephen  H.  Axilrod                                         Economist  (Domestic  Finance)
          Robert  Solomon  1/                                          Economist  (International Finance)
          Harry  Brandt,  Ralph  C. Bryant,
                Richard  G.  Davis,   Raymond   J.
               Doll,   Lyle  E.   Gramley,
               William  J.    Hocter,   James
               Parthemos,  James  L.  Pierce,
                and  John  E.  Reynolds                                Associate  Economists
                By unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York
was  selected  to  execute  transactions  for  the  System Open Market
 Account  until  the  adjournment  of  the  first  meeting  of  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee after  February  28,  1975.
                By unanimous  vote,  Alan R.  Holmes,  Peter  D.  Sternlight,
 and  Charles  A.  Coombs  were  selected  to  serve  at  the  pleasure  of
 the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  as  Manager,  Deputy  Manager, and
 Special  Manager  for  foreign  currency  operations,  respectively,  of
 the  System Open  Market Account,  it  being understood  that  their
       1/  On  leave  of  absence.
 3/18-19/74
 selection  was  subject  to   their  being  satisfactory   to  the  Board
of  Directors  of  the  Federal   Reserve  Bank  of  New  York.
                Secretary's  Note:    Advice  subsequently was  received
                that  Messrs.  Holmes,  Sternlight,  and  Coombs  were
                satisfactory  to  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Federal
                Reserve  Bank  of  New  York  for  service  in  the  respective
                capacities  indicated.
                Consideration  was  then  given  to  the  continuing  authorizations
 of  the  Committee,  in  accordance  with  the  customary  practice  of  review
 ing  such  matters  at  the  first  meeting  in March  of  every  year.
                Secretary's  Note:    On  February  26,   1974,   certain
                continuing  authorizations  of  the  Committee,    listed
                below,  had  been  distributed  by  the  Secretary with
                the  advice   that,   in   accordance  with  past  practice,
                they  would  remain  effective  until  otherwise  directed
                by  the  Committee.    Members  were  asked  to  so  indicate
                if  they wished  to  have  any  of  the  authorizations  in
                question  placed  on  the  agenda  for  consideration  at
                 this  meeting,  and  no  such  requests  were  received.
                The  authorizations   in   question  were  as  follows:
                1.     Procedures  for  allocation  of  securities  in  the
                            System  Open Market  Account.
                2.     Distribution  list                  for  periodic  reports  prepared
                            by Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York.
                 3.   Authority  for  the  Chairman  to  appoint  a  Federal
                            Reserve  Bank  as  agent  to  operate  the  System  Account
                            in   case  the  New  York  Bank  is   unable   to  function.
                4.     Resolutions  providing  for  continued  operation  of
                            the  Committee  and  for  certain  actions  by  the
                            Reserve  Banks  during  an  emergency.1/
     1/   With  respect  to  the  second  of  these  resolutions,   a  final
 (unnumbered)   paragraph  had  been  inadvertently  omitted  from  the  text
 shown  in   the  minutes  of  actions   for  the  meeting  of  the  Committee
 on  September  21,   1971  (the  date  of  the  latest  revision)  and  in   copies
 distributed   subsequently.     The  full  text  of  the  resolution  was  shown
 in   an  attachment   to  the memorandum  of  February  26,   1974,   and  is
 reproduced   in   Attachment  A  to  these  minutes.
3/18-19/74
                5.     Resolution  relating  to  examinations  of  the  System
                           Open  Market  Account.
                6.   Guidelines  for  the  conduct  of  System  operations
                           in  Federal  Agency issues.
                7.    Regulation  relating  to  Open Market  Operations
                           of  Federal  Reserve  Banks.
                8.   Rules  of  Organization,  Rules  Regarding Availability
                           of  Information,and  Rules  of  Procedure.
                It  was  agreed  to  retain  the  existing  procedure  for  making
minutes  and  other  records  of  the  Committee  available  to  employees
 of  the  Board  of  Governors  and  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks,  including
 authorization  to  the  Secretary  to  act  on  the  Chairman's  behalf  in
 considering  proposals  for  the  addition  of  members  of  the  Board's
 staff  to  the  list  of  those  having  access  to  Committee  minutes  and
 other  records.
                By  unanimous  vote,  Section  2 70.4(c)( 2 ) of  the  Regulation
 Relating  to  Open Market  Operations  of  Federal  Reserve Banks  was
amended,  effective  April  1, 1974,  to  read  as  follows:
 § 270.4  Transactions  in Obligations.
                *          *          *
                    (c) In accordance  with  such  limitations,  terms,  and
 conditions  as  are  prescribed by  law and  in  authorizations  and
directives  issued by  the  Committee,  the  Reserve  Bank  selected
 by  the  Committee  is  authorized and  directed  -
                *         *           *
3/18-19/74
                    (2)   To  buy  and  sell  bankers'  acceptances  in  the  open
 market  for  its    own  account;   .
                By  unanimous  vote,   paragraphs   1(b)   and  1(c)  of  the
Authorization  for  Domestic  Open Market  Operations  were amended,
 effective April  1,  1974,  to  read  as  follows:
                (b)   To  buy  or  sell  in   the  open  market,   from  or  to
        acceptance  dealers  and  foreign  accounts  maintained   at
         the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York,   on  a  cash,   regular,
        or  deferred  delivery  basis,  for  the  account  of  the  Federal
         Reserve Bank  of  New York at  market  discount  rates,  prime
        bankers'  acceptances  with  maturities  of  up  to nine  months
        at  the  time  of acceptance  that  (1) arise  out  of  the  cur
         rent  shipment  of  goods  between  countries  or within  the
         United  States,   or  (2)    arise  out  of  the  storage  within
         the  United  States  of  goods  under  contract   of  sale  or
         expected  to  move  into  the  channels  of  trade  within  a
         reasonable  time and  that  are  secured  throughout  their
         life  by  a warehouse  receipt  or  similar  document  conveying
         title     to  the  underlying  goods;  provided  that  the  aggregate
         amount  of  bankers'  acceptances  held  at  any  one  time  shall
        not  exceed  $125  million.
                 (c) To  buy  U.S.  Government  securities,  obligations
         that  are  direct  obligations  of,  or  fully  guaranteed  as
         to  principal  and  interest  by,   any  agency  of  the  United
         States,   and  prime  bankers'   acceptances   of  the  types
         authorized  for  purchase  under  1(b)   above,  from nonbank
         dealers  for  the  account  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
         New  York  under  agreements  for  repurchase  of  such  securities,
         obligations,  or  acceptances  in  15  calendar  days  or  less,  at
         rates  that,   unless  otherwise   expressly  authorized  by  the
         Committee,  shall  be  determined  by  competitive  bidding,
         after  applying  reasonable  limitations  on  the  volume  of
         agreements  with  individual  dealers;   provided  that  in   the
         event  Government  securities  or agency  issues  covered  by
ding,
         after  applying  reasonable  limitations  on  the  volume  of
         agreements  with  individual  dealers;   provided  that  in   the
         event  Government  securities  or agency  issues  covered  by

