                                                                                 Committee
                       Meeting  of  Federal  Open Market
                                             March  18,  1975
                                          MINUTES OF ACTIONS
               A meeting  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  was  held
in  the  offices  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve
 System  in  Washington,   D.C.,    on  Tuesday,   March  18,   1975,   at
 9:30  a.m.
                PRESENT:    Mr.   Burns,   Chairman
                                  Mr. Hayes,  Vice  Chairman
                                  Mr.  Baughman
                                  Mr.   Bucher
                                   Mr.   Coldwell
                                  Mr.   Eastburn
                                   Mr.   Holland
                                   Mr.  MacLaury
                                   Mr.  Mayo
                                   Mr.  Mitchell
                                   Mr.   Sheehan
                                   Mr. Wallich
                                   Messrs.  Balles,  Black, Francis,  and  Winn,
                                          Alternate  Members  of  the  Federal  Open
                                          Market  Committee
                                   Messrs.  Clay, Kimbrel,  and  Morris,
                                           Presidents  of  the  Federal  Reserve
                                           Banks  of  Kansas  City,  Atlanta,   and
                                           Boston,   respectively
                                           Mr.  Broida,  Secretary
                                           Mr.  Altmann,   Deputy  Secretary
                                           Mr.   Bernard,   Assistant  Secretary
                                           Mr.   O'Connell,   General  Counsel
                                           Mr.   Partee,   Senior  Economist
                                           Mr.   Axilrod,   Economist   (Domestic  Finance)
                                           Mr.   Gramley,   Economist  (Domestic   Business)
                                           Mr.   Solomon,   Economist  (International  Finance)
                                           Messrs.   Boehne,   Bryant,   Chase,   Davis,   Green,
                                                  Kareken,   Pierce,   Reynolds,   and  Scheld,
                                                  Associate  Economists
3/18/75
                                          Mr.  Holmes,  Manager,  System Open  Market Account
                                          Mr.  Sternlight,  Deputy Manager  for  Domestic
                                                  Operations
                                          Mr.  Pardee,  Deputy  Manager  for  Foreign
                                                  Operations
                                          Mr.  Coyne,  Assistant  to  the  Board  of
                                                  Governors
                                          Mr.  Keir, Adviser,  Division of  Research and
                                                  Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mrs.  Farar,  Economist,  Division of  Research  and
                                                  Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mrs.   Ferrell,   Open  Market  Secretariat
                                                  Assistant,   Board  of  Governors
                                          Messrs.  Eisenmenger,  Parthemos,  Jordan,  and
                                                  Doll,  Senior  Vice  Presidents,  Federal
                                                  Reserve  Banks  of Boston,  Richmond,  St.
                                                  Louis,  and  Kansas  City,  respectively
                                          Messrs.  Hocter and  Brandt,  Vice Presidents,
                                                  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  Cleveland  and
                                                  Atlanta
                                          Mr.  Keran,  Director of  Research,  Federal
                                                  Reserve  Bank  of  San  Francisco
                                           Mr.  Sandberg,  Assistant  Vice  President,
                                                  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York
                The  Secretary  reported  that  advices  had been  received  of
 the  election  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of members  and  alternate
members  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  for  the  term  of one
 year  beginning March  1,   1975;  that  it  appeared  that  such  persons
were  legally  qualified  to  serve;  and  that  they had  executed  their
 oaths  of  office.
                The  elected members  and  alternates  were  as  follows:
3/18/75
        David  P.  Eastburn,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                Philadelphia,  with  Robert  P.  Black,  President  of  the
                Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Richmond,  as  alternate;
        Alfred  Hayes,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                New  York, with  Richard A.  Debs,  First  Vice  President
                of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  as  alternate;
         Robert  P.  Mayo,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                Chicago,  with Willis  J.   Winn,  President  of  the  Federal
                Reserve  Bank  of  Cleveland,  as  alternate;
         Ernest  T.  Baughman,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                 Dallas,   with  Darryl  R.  Francis,  President  of  the  Federal
                Reserve  Bank  of  St.  Louis,  as  alternate;
         Bruce  K. MacLaury,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                Minneapolis,  with  John  J.  Balles,  President  of  the  Federal
                 Reserve  Bank of  San  Francisco,  as  alternate.
                 By unanimous  vote,  the  following  officers  of  the  Federal
 Open  Market  Committee  were  elected  to  serve  until  the  election  of
 their  successors  at  the  first  meeting  of  the  Committee  after
 February  29,   1976,  with  the understanding  that  in  the  event  of
  the  discontinuance  of  their  official  connection  with  the  Board
 of  Governors  or with  a  Federal  Reserve  Bank,  as  the  case  might  be,
  they would  cease  to  have  any  official  connection with  the  Federal
 Open  Market  Committee:
 3/18/75
Arthur  F.  Burns                                                       Chairman
 Alfred  Hayes                                                          Vice  Chairman
Arthur  L.  Broida                                                      Secretary
Murray Altmann                                                          Deputy  Secretary
 Normand  R.  V.  Bernard                                               Assistant  Secretary
 Thomas  J.    O'Connell                                                General  Counsel
 Edward  G.  Guy                                                        Deputy  General  Counsel
 John  Nicoll                                                           Assistant  General  Counsel
 J.  Charles  Partee                                                     Senior  Economist
 Stephen  H.  Axilrod                                                   Economist  (Domestic  Finance)
Lyle  E.  Gramley                                                       Economist  (Domestic Business)
 Robert  Solomon                                                        Economist  (International  Finance)
 Edward  G.  Boehne,  Ralph  C.  Bryant,
       Samuel  B.  Chase,   Jr.,   Richard  G.
       Davis,  Ralph  T. Green,  John
       Kareken,  James  L.  Pierce,
       John  E.  Reynolds,  and
       Karl  O.  Scheld                                                 Associate  Economists
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York
 was  selected  to  execute  transactions  for  the  System  Open Market
 Account  until  the  adjournment  of  the  first meeting  of  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee  after  February  29,  1976.
                 By unanimous  vote,  the  action by  Committee  members  on
 March  10,  1975,  increasing  from  $1 billion  to  $2 billion  the  dollar
 limit  specified  in paragraph  2 of Authorization  for  Domestic  Open
 Market  Operations  on  System  holdings  of  short-term  certificates  of
 indebtedness  purchased  directly  from  the  Treasury, was  ratified.
                With Mr.  Holland  dissenting,  the  Committee  voted  to  maintain  the
 dollar  limit  specified  in paragraph  2 of Authorization  for  Domestic
 Open Market  Operations  at  $2 billion  for a  period  of  one  year  from
 the  date  of  this  meeting,  unless  in  the  interim  the  Committee
 should  decide  otherwise.
                                                          -5
3/18/75
                By unanimous  vote,  the  minutes  of  actions  taken  at  the
meeting  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  held  on February
 19,  1975,  were  approved.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  System  open  market  transactions  in
 foreign  currencies  during  the  period  February  19  through  March
 17,  1975,  were  approved,  ratified,  and  confirmed.
                By  unanimous  vote,  renewal  for  further  periods  of  3
 months  of  System drawings  on  the  National  Bank  of  Belgium
 maturing  on April  17  and  24,  1975,  was  authorized.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  System  open market  transactions
 in  Government  securities,  agency obligations,  and  bankers'
 acceptances  during  the  period  February  19  through  March  17,  1975,
 were  approved,  ratified,  and  confirmed.
                 With  Messrs.  Bucher,  Eastburn,  and  Sheehan dissenting,  the
  Federal  Reserve  Bank of  New  York was  authorized  and  directed,  until
 otherwise  directed by  the  Committee,  to  execute  transactions  for
  the  System  Account  in  accordance  with  the  following  domestic  policy
  directive:
                 The  information reviewed  at  this  meeting  suggests  that
         real  output  of  goods  and  services  is  continuing  to  fall
          sharply  in  the  current  quarter.    In  February  industrial
         production  and  employment  declined  substantially  further.
         The  unemployment  rate  was  unchanged,  at  8.2  per  cent,  as
          the  civilian  labor  force  declined  sharply.    Average  whole
         sale  prices  of  industrial  commodities  rose  moderately  again
          in  February,  and  prices  of  farm and  food  products  declined
3/18/75
       sharply  further.    The  advance  in average wage  rates,
       although  large,  remained  well  below  the  increases  of
       last  spring  and  summer.
               The  foreign exchange  value  of  the  dollar  declined
       in February,  but  it  strengthened  somewhat  in early
       March,  as  short-term  interest  rates  abroad  fell  further
       and  as  market  attitudes  toward  the  dollar  improved  some
       what.    In  January  the  U.S.  foreign  trade  deficit  was
       only  moderately above  the  rate  in  the  fourth  quarter
       of  1974  despite  a  large  bulge  in  recorded  imports  of
       oil.    Net  outflows  of  capital  reported  by  banks
        continued  large  as  foreigners withdrew  deposits.
               The  narrowly defined  money  stock,  which had  declined
        sharply  in  January,  expanded  considerably  in  February,
       and  broader  measures  of  the  money stock  grew  at  substantial
        rates.    Net  inflows  of  consumer-type  time  and  savings
        deposits  were  particularly  large.    Large-denomination
        CD's  outstanding  contracted  in  February  and  total bank
        credit  showed  little  net  change.    Business  demands  for
        short-term  credit  remained  weak,  both  at  banks  and  in
        the  commercial  paper  market,  while  demands  in  the  long
        term  market  continued exceptionally  strong.    Since mid
        February short-term  market  interest  rates  have  declined
        a  little while  longer-term yields  have  risen.    Federal
        Reserve discount  rates  were  reduced  from  6-3/4  to
        6-1/4  per  cent  in  early March.
                In  light  of  the  foregoing  developments,  it  is  the
        policy  of  the  Federal Open Market  Committee  to  foster
        financial  conditions  conducive  to  stimulating  economic
        recovery, while  resisting  inflationary pressures  and
        working  toward  equilibrium  in  the  country's  balance of
        payments.
                To  implement  this  policy, while  taking  account
        of  developments  in  domestic  and  international  financial
        markets,  the  Committee  seeks  to  achieve  bank  reserve
        and  money market  conditions  consistent with more  rapid
        growth  in monetary aggregates  over  the  months  ahead
        than  has  occurred  in  recent months.
3/18/75
               With  Mr.  Coldwell  dissenting,  the  Committee  voted  to  amend
subsection  271.5(a)  of  the  Rules  Regarding  Availability  of  Information
as  indicated  below,    effective  March  24,   1975:
                SECTION  271.5  -   DEFERMENT  OF  AVAILABILITY OF
                                          CERTAIN INFORMATION
                (a) Deferred  availability  of  information.    -   In  some
 instances,   certain  types  of  information  of  the  Committee  are  not
 published  in   the  Federal  Register  or made  available  for  public
 inspection  or  copying  until  after  such  period  of  time  as  the  Com
mittee  may  determine  to  be  reasonably  necessary  to  avoid  the  effects
 described  in paragraph  (b) of  this  section  or as  may otherwise  be
 necessary  to  prevent  impairment  of  the  effective  discharge  of  the
 Committee's  statutory  responsibilities.    For  example,  the  Committee's
 domestic policy directive  adopted  at  each  meeting of  the  Committee  is
 published  in  the  Federal  Register  approximately 45  days  after  the
 date  of  its  adoption;  and  no  information  in  the  records  of  the  Committee
 relating  to  the  adoption  of  any  such  directive  is  made  available  for
 public  inspection  or  coyping  before  it  is  published  in  the  Federal
 Register  or  is  otherwise  released  to  the  public  by the  Committee.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  Committee  reaffirmed  its  intention
 that  the  memoranda  of  discussion prepared  for  individual  Committee
 meetings  are  not  to  be  made  available  to  the  public  until  after  the
 Committee  has  authorized  their  transfer  to  the  National Archives.
oranda  of  discussion prepared  for  individual  Committee
 meetings  are  not  to  be  made  available  to  the  public  until  after  the
 Committee  has  authorized  their  transfer  to  the  National Archives.

