                            Meeting
                                             of  Federal  Open  Market  Committee
                                                   March  15-16,   1976
                                                 MINUTES  OF  ACTIONS
                A meeting  of   the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  was  held
in  the  offices  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve
System  in   Washington,   D.  C.,    on  Monday  and  Tuesday,   March   15-16,
1976,   beginning  at  3:00  p.m.   on Monday.
                PRESENT:    Mr.   Burns,   Chairman
                                    Mr.   Volcker, Vice  Chairman
                                    Mr.   Balles
                                    Mr.   Black
                                    Mr.   Coldwell
                                    Mr.   Gardner
                                    Mr.   Holland
                                    Mr.   Jackson
                                    Mr.   Kimbrel
                                    Mr.   Partee
                                    Mr.   Wallich
                                    Mr.   Winn
                                    Messrs.  Baughman, Mayo,  and Morris,  Alternate
                                            Members  of  the  Federal  Open  Market
                                            Committee
                                    Messrs.  Eastburn,  Guffey,  and  MacLaury,
                                            Presidents  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks
                                            of  Philadelphia,  Kansas  City,  and
                                            Minneapolis,  respectively
                                            Mr.  Broida,  Secretary
                                            Mr.   Altmann,   Deputy  Secretary
                                            Mr.  Bernard,  Assistant  Secretary
                                            Mr.    O'Connell,  General  Counsel
                                            Mr.  Axilrod,   Economist  (Domestic  Finance)
                                            Mr.  Gramley,1 /  Economist  (Domestic  Business)
                                            Messrs.  Brandt,  Davis,  Hocter,  Keran,  Kichline,1/
                                                    Parthemos,  and  Reynolds,  Associate  Economists
      1/       Attended  Tuesday  session  only.
3/15-16/76
                                             Mr.   Holmes,   Manager,    System  Open  Market  Account
                                             Mr.   Pardee,   Deputy  Manager  for  Foreign
                                                     Operations
                                             Mr.       Sternlight,   Deputy  Manager  for  Domestic
                                                     Operations
                                             Mr.   Coyne,   Assistant  to   the  Board  of  Governors
                                             Messrs.  Kalchbrenner 1/   and  Keir,2/ Advisers,
                                                     Division  of  Research  and  Statistics,
                                                     Board  of  Governors
                                             Mr.   Gemmill,2/   Adviser,   Division  of  Inter
                                                     national  Finance,  Board  of  Governors
                                             Mr.  Henry,1/  Associate  Adviser,  Division  of
                                                      International  Finance,  Board  of
                                                     Governors
                                            Mrs.  Farar,   Economist,  Open  Market  Secretariat,
                                                     Board  of  Governors
                                             Mrs.   Ferrell,   Open  Market   Secretariat
                                                     Assistant,   Board  of  Governors
                                            Mr.   Leonard,   First  Vice  President,   Federal
                                                     Reserve  Bank  of   St.  Louis
                                            Messrs.   Boehne,    Doll,   Eisenmenger,   and  Scheld,
                                                     Senior  Vice  Presidents,  Federal  Reserve
                                                     Banks  of  Philadelphia,   Kansas  City,  Boston,
                                                     and.  Chicago,   respectively
                                            Messrs.  Balbach  and  Burns,  Vice  Presidents,
                                                     Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  St.  Louis  and
                                                     Dallas,  respectively
                                            Mr.  Duprey,  Senior  Economist,  Federal  Reserve
                                                     Bank  of  Minneapolis
                                             Mr.  Ozog,  Manager,  Acceptance    and  Securities
                                                     Departments,    Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York
                In   the  agenda  for  this  meeting,   it  was  reported  that  advices
of  the  election  of  the  following members  and  alternate  members  of
 the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  for  the  year  commencing  March  1,  1976,
           1/   Attended  Monday  session  only.
          2/   Attended  Tuesday  session  only.
3/15-16/76
had    been  received  by  the  Secretary and  the  named  individuals
had    executed  their  oaths  of  office.
                 The  elected members  and  alternate  members  were  as  follows:
Robert  P.  Black,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Richmond,
        with Frank  E.  Morris,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
        Boston,  as  alternate;
 Paul A.  Volcker,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
        New  York, with  Richard  A.  Debs,  First  Vice  President  of
         the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  as  alternate;
Willis  J. Winn,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
         Cleveland,  with  Robert  P.  Mayo,  President  of  the  Federal
         Reserve  Bank  of  Chicago,  as  alternate;
Monroe  Kimbrel,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
        Atlanta, with  Ernest  T.  Baughman,  President  of  the  Federal
         Reserve  Bank  of  Dallas,  as  alternate;
 Mr.  John  J.  Balles,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
         San  Francisco.
                 Secretary's  note:    All  of  the  following  actions
                 were  taken  on  Tuesday,  March  16,  1976.
                 By  unanimous  vote,  the  following  officers  of  the  Federal
Open Market  Committee  were  elected   to  serve  until  the  election  of
 their  successors  at  the  first  meeting  of  the  Committee  after
 February  28,  1977,  with  the  understanding  that  in  the  event  of
 the  discontinuance  of  their  official  connection  with  the  Board
 of  Governors  or  with  a  Federal  Reserve  Bank,  as  the  case  might  be,
 they would  cease  to  have  any  official  connection  with  the  Federal
Open Market  Committee:
 3/15-16/76
 Arthur  F.  Burns                                                      Chairman
 Paul  A. Volcker                                                       Vice  Chairman
 Arthur  L.  Broida                                                     Secretary
 Murray Altmann                                                         Deputy  Secretary
 Normand  R. V.  Bernard                                               Assistant  Secretary
 Thomas  J. O'Connell                                                  General  Counsel
 Edward  G. Guy                                                         Deputy  General  Counsel
 Baldwin  B.  Tuttle                                                   Assistant  General  Counsel
 Stephen  H.  Axilrod                                                   Economist  (Domestic  Finance)
 Ralph  C. Bryant  1/                                                   Economist  (International  Finance)
 Lyle  E. Gramley                                                       Economist  (Domestic  Business)
 Harry  Brandt,  Richard  G.  Davis,
       William  J. Hocter,  Michael  Keran,
       James  L. Kichline,  James
       Parthemos,  John  E. Reynolds,
       and  Joseph  S. Zeisel                                          Associate  Economists
                 By unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of New  York
 was  selected  to  execute  transactions  for  the  System  Open Market
 Account  until  the  adjournment  of  the  first meeting  of  the  Federal
 Open Market  Committee  after  February  28,  1977.
                 By unanimous  vote,  Alan  R. Holmes,  Peter  D.  Sternlight,  and
 Scott  E. Pardee  were  selected  to  serve  at  the pleasure  of  the  Committee
 in  the  capacities  of  Manager  of  the  System Open  Market  Account,  Deputy
Manager  for  Domestic  Operations,  and  Deputy  Manager  for  Foreign  Opera
 tions,  respectively,  on  the  understanding  that  their  selection was
 subject  to  their  being  satisfactory  to  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank of
New  York.
                 Secretary's  note:    Advice  was  subsequently received
                 that  the  selections  indicated  above  were  satisfactory
                 to  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of New  York.
           1/ Currently  on  leave  of  absence.
3/15-16/76
                By  unanimous  vote,  the minutes  of  actions  taken at  the
meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  held  on  February
 17-18,  1976,  were  approved.
                 By unanimous  vote,  the  System  open  market  transactions  in
 foreign  currencies  during  the  period  February  18  through  March
 15,  1976,  were  approved,  ratified,  and  confirmed.
                 By unanimous  vote,  the  open market  transactions  in
 Government  securities,  agency  obligations,  and  bankers'  acceptances
 during  the  period  February  18  through  March  15,  1976,  were
 approved,  ratified,  and  confirmed.
                  By unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of New  York
  was  authorized  and  directed,  until  otherwise  directed  by  the
  Committee,  to  execute  transactions  for the  System  Account
  in accordance  with  the  following  domestic  policy directive:
                  The  information  reviewed at  this  meeting  suggests  that
          output  of  goods  and  services has  continued  to  expand  at  a
          moderate  rate  in  the  current  quarter.    In  February  retail
          sales  rose  considerably  and  recovery  in  industrial  production
          continued.    Gains  in  nonfarm employment  were  again  widespread
          and  the  unemployment  rate  dropped  from  7.8  to  7.6  per  cent.
          Wholesale  prices  of  all  commodities  declined  again  in
          February,  as  average  prices  of .farm products  and  foods  fell
          appreciably  further.    Average  wholesale  prices  of  industrial
          commodities  increased  somewhat  less  than  in January,  owing
          in  part  to  a  reduction  in  crude  oil  prices  required  by  the
          Energy Policy and  Conservation  Act.   Over  recent  months,  the
          advance  in  the  index  of  average wage  rates  has  moderated
          somewhat.
                                                            -6
 3/15-16/76
                 The  average  value  of  the  dollar  against  leading  foreign
         currencies  has  increased  in  recent weeks  to  its  highest  level
         in  2  years.    In  the  exchange  markets,  the  British  pound has
         depreciated  sharply;  the  lira  has  weakened  further;  and  most
         recently,  the  French    franc  has  depreciated  after abandonment
         of  efforts  to  maintain  fixed  margins  with  certain  other  Euro
        pean  currencies.    In  January  the  U.S.  foreign  trade  balance
         shifted  into  deficit.
                M 1 , which  had  increased  only  a  little  in  January,  expanded
        moderately  in  February;    M2  and  M 3  rose  sharply.    At  commercial
        banks  and  nonbank  thrift  institutions,  inflows  of  time  and
         savings  deposits  other  than  large-denomination  CD's  remained
         large.    Since  mid-February,  both  short-  and  long-term  interest
         rates  have  changed  little  on balance.
                 In  light  of  the  foregoing  developments,  it  is  the  policy
        of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  to  foster  financial
         conditions  that will  encourage  continued  economic  recovery,
        while  resisting  inflationary pressures  and  contributing  to
        a  sustainable  pattern  of  international  transactions.
                To  implement  this  policy, while  taking  account  of
        developments  in  domestic  financial  markets  and  the  sensitive
         state  of  foreign  exchange  markets,  the  Committee  seeks  to
        achieve  bank  reserve  and  money market  conditions  consistent
        with moderate  growth  in monetary  aggregates  over  the period
        ahead.
                By unanimous  vote,  the  Committee  removed  the  1-year  time
 limitation  it  had  attached  on March  18,   1975,  to  an  increase  from
 $1 billion  to  $2 billion  in  the  dollar  limit,  specified  in  paragraph
2  of  the  Authorization  for  Domestic  Open Market  Operations,  on
 System holdings  of  special  short-term  certificates  of  indebtedness
purchased  directly  from  the  Treasury.
                                                          -7-
 3/15-16/76
                 It   was  agreed  that  the  authorization  for  the  lending  of
Government  securities  from  the  System  Open  Market  Account,  contained
 in paragraph  3  of  the  Authorization  for  Domestic  Open Market  Opera
 tions,  should  be  retained  at  this  time,  subject  to  annual  review.
                 Consideration  was  then  given  to  the  continuing  authorizations
of  the  Committee,  in  accordance  with  the  customary  practice  of  review
ing  such  matters  at  the  first meeting  in  March  of  every  year.
                 Secretary's  note:    On  February  25,   1976,  certain  con
                 tinuing  authorizations  of  the  Committee,  listed  below,
                had  been  distributed  by  the  Secretary  with  the  advice
                 that,  in accordance  with  procedures  approved  by  the  Com
                mittee,  they  were  being  called  to  the  Committee's  attention
                before  the  March  organization meeting  to  give  members  an
                opportunity  to  raise  any  questions  they  had  concerning  them.
                Members  were  asked   to  so  indicate  if  they  wished  to  have
                any  of  the  authorizations  in  question  placed  on  the  agenda
                 for  consideration  at  this  meeting,  and  no  such  requests
                were  received.
                The  authorizations  in  question  were  as  follows:
                1.    Procedures  for  allocation of  securities  in  the  System
                        Open  Market  Account.
                2.    List  of  Treasury Department  officials  to  whom  weekly
                        reports  on  open  market  operations  may  be  sent.
                3.   Authority  for  the  Chairman  to  appoint  a  Federal  Reserve
                        Bank  as  agent  to  operate  the  System  Account  in  case  the
                        New  York  Bank  is  unable  to  function.
                4.    Resolutions  providing  for  continued  operation  of  the
                        Committee  and  for  certain  actions  by  the  Reserve  Banks
                        during  an  emergency.
                5.    Resolution  relating  to  examinations  of  the  System
                        Open  Market  Account.
                6.    Guidelines  for  the  conduct  of  System  operations  in
                        Federal  agency  is'sues.
                7.    Regulation  relating  to  Open  Market  Operations  of  Federal
                        Reserve  Banks.
                8.    Rules  of  Organization,  Rules  Regarding  Availability  of
                        Information,  and  Rules  of  Procedure.
to  Open  Market  Operations  of  Federal
                        Reserve  Banks.
                8.    Rules  of  Organization,  Rules  Regarding  Availability  of
                        Information,  and  Rules  of  Procedure.

