12/20-21/76
                                Meeting  of Federal  Open Market  Committee
                                                   December  20-21,   1976
                                                MINUTES   OF ACTIONS
               A meeting  of the Federal  Open Market  Committee was  held
 in  the offices of the Board of Governors  of the  Federal Reserve
 System in  Washington,   D.C.,   on Monday and  Tuesday,   December  20-21,
 1976,   beginning  at  3:30 p.m.   on Monday.
               PRESENT:   Mr.  Burns,   Chairman
                                        Mr. Volcker,   Vice  Chairman
                                        Mr.  Balles
                                        Mr.  Black
                                        Mr.   Coldwell
                                        Mr.   Gardner
                                        Mr.  Jackson
                                        Mr.   Kimbrel
                                        Mr.   Lilly
                                        Mr.   Partee
                                        Mr.   Wallich
                                        Mr.   Winn
                                        Messrs.   Baughman,   Guffey,   Mayo,   and Morris,
                                                   Alternate Members  of the  Federal Open
                                                    Market  Committee
                                        Messrs.   MacLaury,   Eastburn,   and Roos,   Presidents
                                                    of the  Federal Reserve  Banks  of Minneapolis,
                                                    Philadelphia,   and St. Louis,   respectively
                                                    Mr.   Broida,   Secretary
                                                    Mr.  Altmann,   Deputy  Secretary
                                                    Mr.   Bernard,  1/  Assistant  Secretary
                                                    Mr.   O'Connell,   General Counsel
                                                    Mr.  Axilrod,   Economist  (Domestic Finance)
                                                    Mr.  Gramley, 2/   Economist  (Domestic Business)
                                                    Messrs.   Brandt,   Davis,   Kichline,   Parthemos,
                                                           Reynolds,   and  Zeisel, 2/   Associate  Economists
 1/   Attended  Monday  session only.
 2/    Attended  Tuesday  session  only.
12/20-21/76                                                                    -  2  -
                                                      Mr.   Pardee,   Deputy Manager  for Foreign
                                                                  Operations
                                                      Mr.   Sternlight,   Deputy  Manager  for
                                                                  Domestic  Operations
                                                      Messrs.   Coyne  and  Keir,  Assistants  to
                                                                  the Board  of Governors
                                                      Messrs.   Gemmill  and  Kalchbrenner,  3/
                                                                  Advisers,   Divisions  of  International
                                                                  Finance  and  Research  and  Statistics,
                                                                  respectively,   Board  of Governors
                                                      Mr.   Paulus,  3/   Chief,  Banking  Section,   Division
                                                                  of Research  and Statistics,   Board  of
                                                                  Governors
                                                     Mr.   Smith, 3/   Chief,   Financial Markets  Section,
                                                                  Division  of International  Finance,   Board
                                                                  of Governors
                                                     Mr.   Beck, 3/   Senior  Economist,   Division  of Research
                                                                  and  Statistics,   Board  of Governors
                                                     Mrs.   Farar,   Economist,   Open  Market
                                                                  Secretariat,   Board  of Governors
                                                     Mrs.   Deck,  Staff Assistant,  Open  Market
                                                                  Secretariat,   Board  of Governors
                                                     Messrs.   Boehne,   Doll,  Eisenmenger,   and
                                                                  Scheld,   Senior  Vice Presidents,
                                                                  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of Philadelphia,
                                                                  Kansas  City,   Boston and Chicago,
                                                                  respectively
                                                     Messrs.   Burns,   Karnosky,   and  Keran,   Vice
                                                                  Presidents,   Federal  Reserve  Banks  of
                                                                  Dallas,   St.   Louis,   and  San  Francisco
                                                                  respectively
                                                       Mr.   Hall,  Assistant   Vice  President,   Federal
                                                                  Reserve  Bank  of  Cleveland
                                                       Mr.  Duprey,   Economic  Adviser,  Federal
                                                                 Reserve  Bank  of  Minneapolis
                                                       Ms.   Tschinkel,   Adviser,  Federal   Reserve
                                                                 Bank  of  New  York
3/  Attended  part  of Monday  session  only.
  12/20-21/76                                                            -    3  -
                By  unanimous  vote,   the following  revised Authorization  for
Foreign  Currency Operations,   revised  Foreign  Currency  Directive,
and  Special Authorization  were approved,   on  the understanding  that
they  would become  effective  upon  the resolution  subsequent  to  the
meeting  of a  technical  question concerning  the wording  of a  clause
in  the Directive.    The  actions  were  effective  December  28,   1976.
                 AUTHORIZATION  FOR  FOREIGN  CURRENCY  OPERATIONS
                1.     The Federal  Open Market  Committee  authorizes
               and  directs  the Federal  Reserve  Bank of  New  York,  for
               System  Open Market  Account,   to the  extent  necessary
               to  carry out  the Committee's  foreign  currency  directive
               and  express  authorizations  by  the  Committee  pursuant
               thereto,  and  in  conformity  with  such procedural  instructions
               as  the Committee  may issue  from  time to  time:
                       A.     To purchase  and  sell the following  foreign
                       currencies  in  the form  of cable transfers  through
                       spot  or  forward  transactions  on  the open market  at
                       home and  abroad,   including  transactions  with  the
                       U.S.   Exchange  Stabilization  Fund  established  by
                       Section  10  of the Gold Reserve  Act  of 1934,   with
                       foreign monetary  authorities,   with  the Bank
                       for  International  Settlements,   and  with other
                       international  financial  institutions:
                                                        Austrian  schillings
                                                         Belgian  francs
                                                         Canadian  dollars
                                                        Danish kroner
                                                        Pounds  sterling
                                                         French  francs
                                                        German  marks
                                                        Italian  lire
                                                        Japanese  Yen
                                                        Mexican  pesos
                                                         Netherlands  guilders
                                                         Norwegian  kroner
                                                         Swedish kronor
                                                        Swiss  francs
                                                              -
12/20-21/76                                                       4    -
                       B.    To hold balances  of,   and  to have
                       outstanding forward  contracts    to receive
                       or to  deliver,   the foreign  currencies  listed
                       in  paragraph  A above.
                       C.     To draw  foreign  currencies  and to permit
                       foreign banks  to draw  dollars  under the
                       reciprocal  currency  arrangements  listed
                       in  paragraph  2 below,  provided  that  drawings
                       by  either  party  to any  such  arrangement
                       shall  be fully  liquidated  within  12 months
                       after any  amount outstanding  at that  time was
                       first drawn,   unless  the Committee,   because
                      of  exceptional  circumstances,   specifically
                       authorizes  a  delay.
                      D.    To maintain an over-all open position
                       in  all foreign  currencies  not  exceeding
                       $1.0  billion,   unless  a  larger position is
                       expressly  authorized  by  the Committee.
                       For this purpose,   the  over-all  open position
                       in  all foreign  currencies  is   defined  as  the
                       sum  (disregarding  signs)  of open positions
                       in   each  currency.     The open  position  in  a
                       single  foreign  currency  is   defined as  holdings
                       of balances  in  that  currency,   plus  outstanding
                       contracts  for  future  receipt,  minus  outstand
                       ing contracts  for  future delivery  of that
                       currency,   i.  e.,   as  the sum  of these  elements
                       with due regard  to  sign.
               2.    The Federal  Open  Market  Committee directs  the  Federal
               Reserve  Bank of New York  to maintain  reciprocal  currency
               arrangements   ("swap"  arrangements)  for the  System  Open
               Market  Account  for periods  up  to a  maximum  of  12 months
               with the  following foreign  banks,   which  are among those
               designated  by the  Board  of Governors  of the Federal
               Reserve  System  under  Section  214.  5  of Regulation  N,
               Relations  with Foreign  Banks  and Bankers,   and  with  the
               approval  of the Committee  to  renew  such arrangements
               on  maturity:
                                                                                5
                                                                            -
12/20-21/76
                                                                                                   Amount  of
                                                                                                arrangement
                                                                                              (Millions  of
                                Foreign  bank                                            dollars  equivalent)
                       Austrian National  Bank                                                           250
                       National  Bank of Belgium                                                     1, 000
                       Bank of Canada                                                                2,  000
                       National  Bank of Denmark                                                          250
                       Bank of  England                                                              3,  000
                       Bank of France                                                                2, 000
                       German Federal  Bank                                                          2,  000
                       Bank of Italy                                                                 3, 000
                       Bank of Japan                                                                 2, 000
                       Bank of Mexico                                                                     360
                       Netherlands  Bank                                                                  500
                       Bank of Norway                                                                     250
                       Bank of Sweden                                                                     300
                       Swiss  National  Bank                                                          1, 400
                       Bank for  International
                           Settlements:
                           Dollars  against Swiss  francs                                                 600
                           Dollars  against  authorized
                                European  currencies  other
                                than  Swiss  francs                                                  1, 250
               Any changes  in   the terms  of  existing  swap  arrangements,   and
               the proposed  terms  of any new  arrangements  that  may  be
               authorized,   shall be  referred  for  review and  approval  to the
               Committee.
               3.     Currencies  to be  used  for liquidation  of System  swap
               commitments  may  be purchased  from  the  foreign  central
               bank drawn  on,  at the  same  exchange  rate as that  employed
               in  the drawing to  be  liquidated.    Apart  from any  such
               purchases  at the rate of the  drawing,   all transactions  in  foreign
               currencies  undertaken  under  paragraph  1(A)  above  shall,
               unless  otherwise  expressly authorized  by  the  Committee,   be
               at  prevailing  market  rates.
                                                                                6
                                                                            -
12/20-21/76
               4.    It  shall  be the  normal practice  to arrange  with foreign
               central banks  for the coordination  of foreign  currency  trans
               actions.    In making  operating  arrangements  with foreign
               central banks  on System holdings of foreign  currencies,   the
               Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York  shall not commit  itself
               to  maintain  any  specific  balance,   unless  authorized  by  the
               Federal  Open Market  Committee.    Any agreements  or
               understandings  concerning  the administration  of the accounts
               maintained  by the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York with
               the Foreign banks  designated  by  the Board  of Governors
               under Section  214. 5 of Regulation  N  shall be referred  for
               review  and  approval  to the Committee.
               5.     Foreign  currency  holdings  shall be invested  insofar as
               practicable,   considering  needs  for  minimum  working balances.
               Such investments  shall be in  accordance  with Section  14(e)  of
               the  Federal Reserve  Act.
               6.    All operations  undertaken  pursuant to the preceding
               paragraphs  shall be reported  daily  to the Foreign  Currency
               Subcommittee.     The Foreign  Currency  Subcommittee  consists
               of  the Chairman  and Vice  Chairman  of the  Committee,   the Vice
               Chairman  of the Board  of Governors,   and such other member
               of  the Board   as  the Chairman may  designate  (or in  the  absence
               of members  of the Board  serving on the  Subcommittee,   other
               Board  Members  designated by  the Chairman  as alternates,   and
               in  the absence  of the Vice  Chairman  of the Committee,   his
               alternate).                Meetings  of the Subcommittee  shall be called
               at the request  of any member,   or  at the  request  of the  Manager,
               for  the purposes  of  reviewing  recent or contemplated  operations
               and of consulting  with the  Manager  on  other matters  relating
               to  his responsibilities.    At the  request of any member  of the
               Subcommittee,   questions  arising  from  such reviews  and
               consultations  shall  be referred  for determination  to  the
               Federal  Open Market Committee.
               7.     The Chairman  is   authorized:
                       A.    With the approval  of the Committee,   to
                       enter  into any  needed  agreement  or  under
                       standing with the Secretary  of the  Treasury
                       about  the  division of responsibility  for  foreign
                       currency  operations  between  the  System and
                       the  Treasury;
12/20-21/76                                              -  7 -
                      B.    To  keep  the  Secretary  of the Treasury  fully
                      advised  concerning  System  foreign  currency
                      operations,   and  to consult  with  the  Secretary on
                      policy matters  relating to foreign  currency
                      operations;
                      C.    From  time  to time,   to transmit  appropriate
                      reports  and  information  to the National
                      Advisory  Council on  International  Monetary
                      and Financial Policies.
               8.    Staff officers  of the  Committee are authorized  to
               transmit  pertinent   information   on   System  foreign
               currency  operations   to  appropriate  officials  of
               the  Treasury  Department.
               9.    All Federal  Reserve  Banks  shall participate  in  the
              foreign  currency  operations  for  System Account  in
              accordance  with paragraph  3  G(1)  of the Board  of
              Governors'   Statement  of Procedure  with  Respect  to
              Foreign  Relationships  of Federal  Reserve  Banks  dated
              January   1,    1944.
                                          FOREIGN  CURRENCY  DIRECTIVE
              1.    System  operations  in  foreign currencies  shall generally
              be directed  at countering  disorderly market  conditions,
              provided that market  exchange  rates for  the  U.S.   dollar
              reflect  actions  and  behavior  consistent  with the proposed
              IMF  Article  IV,   Section  1.
             2.    To  achieve  this  end  the System  shall:
                      A.    Undertake  spot  and forward  purchases  and
                      sales  of foreign  exchange.
                      B.    Maintain  reciprocal  currency  ("swap")
                      arrangements  with  selected  foreign  central
                      banks and  with the  Bank   for International
                      Settlements.
                      C.    Cooperate  in  other  respects  with central
                      banks  of other  countries  and  with  international
                      monetary  institutions.
  with the  Bank   for International
                      Settlements.
                      C.    Cooperate  in  other  respects  with central
                      banks  of other  countries  and  with  international
                      monetary  institutions.

