                                                                                             Committee
                    Meeting  of  Federal  Open  Market
                                                   March  15,   1977
                                          MINUTES  OF  ACTIONS
                        A  meeting  of   the  Federal  Open  Committee  was  held
 in  the  offices   of  the  Board  of  Governors  of   the  Federal
Reserve  System  in  Washington,  D.  C.,    on  Tuesday,  March  15,
 1977,   beginning  at   9:30  a.m.
            PRESENT:     Mr.   Burns,   Chairman
                                    Mr.  Volcker,  Vice  Chairman
                                    Mr.  Coldwell
                                    Mr.   Gardner
                                    Mr.   Guffey
                                    Mr.   Jackson
                                    Mr.   Lilly
                                    Mr.  Mayo
                                    Mr.  Morris
                                    Mr.  Partee
                                    Mr.  Roos
                                    Mr.  Wallich
                                    Messrs.  Balles,  Baughman,  Eastburn,  and  Winn,
                                                Alternate  Members  of   the  Federal  Open
                                                Market   Committee
                                    Messrs.  Black  and  Kimbrel,  Presidents   of  the
                                                Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  Richmond  and
                                                Altanta,  respectively
                                                Mr.   Broida,   Secretary
                                                Mr.   Altmann,  Deputy   Secretary
                                                Mr.   Bernard,  Assistant   Secretary
                                                Mr.  O'Connell,   General  Counsel
                                                Mr.   Axilrod,  Economist
                                                Messrs.  Balbach,  T.   Davis,   Ettin,
                                                           Kichline,  Reynolds,  Scheld,
                                                           Truman,   and  Zeisel,  Associate
                                                           Economists
3/15/77                                                             -   2   -
                                                 Mr.  Holmes,  Manager   System  Open  Market
                                                             Account
                                                 Mr.   Pardee,  Deputy  Manager   for  Foreign
                                                             Operations
                                                 Mr.  Sternlight,  Deputy  Manager   for
                                                             Domestic  Operations
                                                 Mr.   Hudson,  Assistant   to  the  Chairman,
                                                             Board  of  Governors
                                                 Messrs.  Coyne  and   Keir,  Assistants  to
                                                             the  Board  of   Governors
                                                 Mrs.   Farar,  Economist,   Open  Market
                                                             Secretariat,   Board  of   Governors
                                                 Mrs.  Deck,  Staff  Assistant,   Open  Market
                                                             Secretariat,  Board  of  Governors
                                                 Mr.   Van  Nice,  First   Vice  President,
                                                             Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Minneapolis
                                                Messrs.  Boehne,  Davis,  and  Parthemos,
                                                            Senior  Vice  Presidents,  Federal
                                                            Reserve  Banks  of  Philadelphia,
                                                            Cleveland,  and  Richmond,
                                                            respectively
                                                Messrs.  Brandt,   Burns,  Fieleke,  Fousek,
                                                            and  Keran,  Vice  Presidents,  Federal
                                                            Reserve  Banks  of  Atlanta,  Dallas,
                                                            Boston,  New  York,  and  San  Francisco
                                                            respectively
                                                Mr.  Kareken,  Economic  Adviser,  Federal
                                                            Reserve  Bank  of  Minneapolis
                                                Mr.  Meek,  Monetary  Adviser,  Federal
                                                            Reserve   Bank  of  New  York
                         In  the   agenda  for   this  meeting,   it   was  reported
that   advices  of   the   election  of   the  following  members  and
alternate  members  of  the  Federal  Open  Market   Committee  for
 3/15/77                                                            -   3  -
 the  year  commencing  March   1,  1977,  had  been   received  by  the
 Secretary  and  the  named   individuals  had  executed  their
 oaths  of   office.
                         The  elected  members  and  alternate  members  were
 as   follows:
 Frank  E.   Morris,  President   of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
             Boston,  with  David  P.   Eastburn,  President   of  the
             Federal  Reserve  Bank  of   Philadelphia,  as   alternate;
 Paul  A.  Volcker,  President   of   the  Federal   Reserve  Bank  of
             New  York,  with  Thomas  M.   Timlen,  First   Vice  President
             of   the  Federal   Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  as   alternate;
 Robert  P.   Mayo,  President  of   the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
             Chicago,  with  Willis  J.   Winn,  President   of  the  Federal
             Reserve  Bank  of   Cleveland,  as  alternate;
 Lawrence  K.  Roos,  President   of  the   Federal  Reserve   Bank  of
             St.   Louis,  with  Ernest  T.  Baughman,  President   of   the
             Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Dallas,  as   alternate;
 James  R.  Guffey,  President   of   the   Federal  Reserve   Bank  of
             Kansas  City,  with  John  J.  Balles,  President   of   the
             the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of   San  Francisco,   as   alternate.
                        By   unanimous  vote,  the   following  officers  of   the
Federal   Open  Market   Committee  were  elected  to  serve   until
 the   election  of  their   successors   at  the  first   meeting  of
 the  Committee  after   February  28,   1978,  with   the  understanding
that   in  the   event  of   the  discontinuance   of  their  official
 connection  with  the   Board  of   Governors  or  with   a  Federal
Reserve  Bank,  as  the   case  might  be,   they  would   cease   to
 have  any  official   connnection  with  the  Federal   Open  Market
Committee:
3/15/77                                                            -   4   -
 Arthur  F.   Burns                                                         Chairman
 Paul  A.  Volcker                                                          Vice  Chairman
 Arthur  L.   Broida                                                        Secretary
 Murray  Altmann                                                            Deputy  Secretary
 Normand  R.  V.  Bernard                                                   Assistant   Secretary
 Thomas  J.  O'Connell                                                      General  Counsel
 Edward  G.   Guy                                                           Deputy  General   Counsel
 Baldwin  B.  Tuttle                                                        Assistant  General   Counsel
 Stephen  H.  Axilrod                                                       Economist
 Anatol   Balbach,  Richard  G.
     Davis,  Thomas  Davis,  Robert
     Eisenmenger,  Edward  Ettin,
      James  L.  Kichline,  Karl
      Scheld,  John  E.  Reynolds,
     Edward  M.  Truman,   Joseph
     S.   Zeisel                                                            Associate  Economists
                        By  unanimous  vote,   the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
New  York  was   selected  to  execute  transactions  for  the
 System  Open  Market  Account   until  the  adjournment  of   the
 first  meeting  of  the  Federal   Open  Market   Committee  after
 February  28,   1978.
                        By  unanimous  vote,   Alan  R.   Holmes,  Peter  D.
 Sternlight,   and  Scott  E.   Pardee  were   selected  to   serve  at
 the  pleasure   of  the  Committee   in  the  capacities  of  Manager
 of  the  System  Open  Market  Account,   Deputy   Manager  for
Domestic  Operations,   and  Deputy  Manager   for  Foreign  Oper
 ations,   respectively,  on  the  understanding  that   their
 selection  was  subject  to  their  being   satisfactory  to  the
 Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York.
3/15/77                                                       -   5   -
                         Secretary's  note:     Advice  was   subsequently
                         received  that   the   selections  indicated  above
                        were  satisfactory  to   the  Federal  Reserve
                        Bank  of  New  York.
                        By  unanimous  vote,  the  minutes  of   actions  taken
 at   the  meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  held
 on  February   15,  1977,  were  approved.
                        By  unanimous  vote,   System  open   market  transactions
 in   foreign  currencies  during  the  period  February  15   through
March   14,   1977,  were  approved,   ratified,  and   confirmed.
                        By  unanimous  vote,   System  open  market   transactions
 in  Government  securities,   agency  obligations,   and  bankers'
 acceptances  during  the  period  February   15   through  March   14,
 1977,  were  approved,  ratified,   and  confirmed.
                        By  unanimous   vote,   the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
New  York  was  authorized  and   directed,  until  otherwise
 directed  by   the  Committee,  to   execute  transactions  in  the
 System  Account   in   accordance  with  the  following  domestic
policy  directive:
                                    The   information  reviewed  at   this  meeting
                        suggests  that   growth   in   real   output   of  goods
                        and  services  has  increased  in   the   current
                        quarter   from  the  reduced  pace   in  the   fourth
                        quarter   of   1976.     In  February   industrial
                        output   and   retail  sales   expanded  substantially
                        after  being  held  down   for   a  time  by  the  effects
                        of  unusually   severe  weather.     Employment  rose
                        considerably  further;   the  unemployment   rate
3/15/77                                                           -   6  -
                        increased  somewhat   to  7.5  per  cent--as   the
                        labor  force  more  than  recovered   the  decline
                        of   January--but   it   remained  below   the  7.8
                        per  cent   of  December.     The  wholesale  price
                        index  for  all  commodities  rose  substantially
                        in  February,  reflecting   large  increases
                        for   farm  products   and  foods   and  for   fuels
                        and  power.     The   index  of  average  wage  rates
                        rose  more  moderately   over  the  first  2  months
                        of   1977  than   it  had  on  the  average  during
                        1976.
                                    The  average  value  of  the   dollar   against
                        leading  foreign   currencies  has   changed  little
                        over   the  past  month.     In  January  the  U.   S.
                        foreign  trade   deficit   increased   further;
                        exports   were  down  a   little   from  the  fourth
                        quarter   rate   and  imports  were  substantially
                        higher.
                                    Growth  in  M-1   slowed  sharply   in   February
                        from  the  moderate  pace   in  January.     At  banks
                        and  thrift  institutions,   inflows   of   time
                        and  savings  deposits  other   than   large
                        denomination  CD's  continued  to   slacken.
                       Business   demands   for  short-term   credit   appear
                        to  have   strengthened  further   in   early  1977.
                        Since  mid-Februay  short-term  market  interest
                        rates   have  changed  little  on   balance,  but  most
                        longer-term  rates  have  edged  higher.
                                    In   light  of   the   foregoing  developments,
                        it   is   the  policy  of   the  Federal  Open  Market
                        Committee  to   foster  bank  reserve  and   other
                        financial  conditions   that  will   encourage
                        continued  economic   expansion,  while  resisting
                        inflationary  pressures  and  contributing   to  a
                        sustainable    pattern  of   international   trans
                        actions.
                                   At   its  meeting   on  January   18,   1977,  the
                        Committee  agreed   that   growth  of  M-1,   M-2,  and
                        M-3  within  ranges  of  4-1/2   to   6-1/2  per  cent,
                        7   to  10   per  cent,   and  8-1/2  to   11-1/2  per  cent,
                        respectively,   from  the  fourth  quarter  of   1976
                        to  the  fourth  quarter  of   1977  appears  to
                        be  consistent  with  these  objectives.
3/15/77                                                          -   7  -
                         These  ranges  are  subject   to  reconsideration
                         at  any  time  as   conditions  warrant.
                                    The  Committee  seeks   to  encourage  near
                         term  rates  of   growth  in  M-1  and  M-2  on  a
                        path  believed  to  be   reasonably  consistent
                        with  the   longer-run   ranges   for  monetary
                         aggregates  cited   in  the  preceding  paragraph.
                         Specifically,  at  present,   it   expects  the
                         annual   growth  rates   over  the  March-April
                        period  to  be  within   the  ranges  of  4-1/2  to
                         8-1/2  per  cent   for  M-1   and  7  to   11   per  cent
                         for  M-2.     In  the  judgment   of   the  Committee
                         such  growth  rates   are   likely  to  be  associ
                         ated  with  a  weekly  average  Federal  funds   rate
                        of   about   4-5/8   to  4-3/4  per   cent.                                        If,
                        giving   approximately  equal  weight   to  M-1
                         and  M-2,   it   appears  that   growth  rates  over
                        the   2-month  period  will  deviate   significantly
                        from  the  mid-points   of  the   indicated  ranges,
                        the  operational   objective   for  the   Federal
                         funds  rate  shall  be  modified  in  an  orderly
                         fashion  within   a  range   of  4-1/4   to  5-1/4
                        per  cent.
                                    If   it   appears  during   the  period  before
                        the  next  meeting  that   the  operating   con
                        straints   specified  above  are  proving  to  be
                        significantly  inconsistent,   the   Manager  is
                        promptly  to  notify  the  Chairman  who  will
                        then  decide  whether  the   situation   calls   for
                        supplementary  instructions   from  the  Committee.
                        Consideration  was  then   given   to  the   continuing
 authorizations   of  the  Committee,   in   accordance  with   the
 customary  practice  of   reviewing   such  matters  at   the   first
meeting   in  March  of   every  year.
                        Secretary's  note:     On  February  25,   1977,
                        certain  continuing  authorizations  of   the
                        Committee,   listed  below,  had  been  distributed
                        by  the  Secretary  with  the  advice  that,   in
                        accordance  with  procedures   approved  by  the
ions  of   the
                        Committee,   listed  below,  had  been  distributed
                        by  the  Secretary  with  the  advice  that,   in
                        accordance  with  procedures   approved  by  the

