2/15/77
                        Meeting  of  Federal  Open  Market   Committee
                                                    February   15,   1977
                                                    MINUTES  OF  ACTIONS
                        A  meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market   Committee  was
held  in  the   offices  of   the  Board  of  Governors  of   the  Federal
Reserve  System  in  Washington,  D.   C.,    on  Tuesday,  February  15,
1977,   at   9:00   a.m.
            PRESENT:     Mr.  Burns,  Chairman
                                    Mr.  Volcker,  Vice  Chairman
                                    Mr.  Balles
                                    Mr.  Black
                                    Mr.  Coldwell
                                    Mr.  Gardner
                                    Mr.  Jackson
                                    Mr.  Kimbrel
                                    Mr.  Lilly
                                    Mr.  Partee
                                    Mr.  Wallich
                                    Mr.  Winn
                                    Messrs.  Baughman,  Guffey,  Mayo,  and  Morris,
                                                Alternate  Members  of   the  Federal  Open
                                                Market  Committee
                                    Messrs.  Eastburn  and   Roos,  Presidents  of   the
                                                Federal  Reserve   Banks  of  Philadelphia  and
                                                St.   Louis,  respectively
                                                Mr.  Broida,  Secretary
                                                Mr.  Altmann,1/  Deputy  Secretary
                                                Mr.  Bernard,1/  Assistant   Secretary
                                                Mr.  O'Connell,   General   Counsel
                                                Mr.  Axilrod,  Economist   (Domestic  Finance)
                                                Messrs.  Brandt,1/  Davis,1/   Keran,1/
                                                            Kichline,1,   Parthemos,1/  Reynolds,1/
                                                            and  Zeisel,1/  Associate  Economists
 1/     Attended  part  of  Tuesday  session  only.
 2/15/77
                                                                          -   2   -
                                                 Mr.   Holmes,  Manager  System  Open  Market
                                                              Account
                                                 Mr.   Pardee,1/  Deputy  Manager  for  Foreign
                                                             Operations
                                                 Mr.  Sternlight,1/  Deputy   Manager   for
                                                             Domestic  Operations
                                                 Messrs.  Coyne  and  Keir,1/  Assistants  to
                                                              the  Board  of   Governors
                                                 Mr.   Ettin,1/  Associate  Director,  Division
                                                             of   Research  and  Statistics,   Board  of
                                                             Governors
                                                 Mr.   Truman,1/  Associate  Director,  Division
                                                             of   International   Finance,  Board  of
                                                             Governors
                                                 Mrs.  Farar,1/   Economist,   Open  Market
                                                             Secretariat,   Board  of   Governors
                                                 Mrs.  Deck,1/  Staff   Assistant,   Open  Market
                                                             Secretariat,   Board  of   Governors
                                                 Mr.  Van  Nice,   First   Vice  President,   Federal
                                                             Reserve  Bank  of   Minneapolis
                                                 Messrs.  Balbach,1/   Boehne,1/  Davis,1/   and
                                                             Scheld,1/   Senior  Vice  Presidents,
                                                             Federal  Reserve   Banks   of   St.   Louis,
                                                             Philadelphia,  Cleveland,and  Chicago,
                                                             respectively
                                                 Messrs.  Davis,1/   and  Green,1/  Vice  Presidents,
                                                             Federal  Reserve  Banks  of   Kansas   City
                                                             and  Dallas,  respectively
                                                 Mr.   McNees,1/   Assistant  Vice  President,
                                                             Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Boston
                                                 Mr.   Kareken,1/  Economic   Adviser,  Federal
                                                             Reserve  Bank  of   Minneapolis
                                                 Mr.   Hill,1/   Senior  Economist,   Federal   Reserve
                                                              Bank  of   New  York
                         By  unanimous  vote,  the  Committee  approved  the   following
 statement   of   policy  regarding   the  Government   in  the  Sunshine
Act:
 1/       Attended  part  of  Tuesday  session  only.
2/15/77
                                                                         -   3   -
                                                Policy  Regarding  the
                                       Government   in  the  Sunshine  Act
                        On   September  13,   1976,  there  was   enacted   into
            law  the  Government   in  the   Sunshine  Act,   Pub.  L.   No.94
            409,  90  Stat.   1241   ("Sunshine  Act"),   established
            for  the  purpose  of  providing  the  public  with  the
            "fullest   practicable   information  regarding  the
            decisionmaking  processes  of   the  Federal  Government...
            while   protecting  the  rights   of   individuals   and  the
            ability   of  the  Government   to  carry  out  its   responsi
            bilities."1/     The  Sunshine  Act   applies  only  to   those
            Federal   agencies  that   are   defined   in  Section  552(e)
            of  Title   5  of  the   United  States  Code   and  "headed  by
            a  collegial  body  composed  of  two   or  more  individual
            members,   a  majority   of  whom  are   appointed  to   such
            position  by   the  President  with  the   advice   and  con
            sent  of  the  Senate,  and  any  subdivision   thereof
            authorized  to  act   on  behalf  of   the  agency. "2/
                      The  Federal  Open  Market  Committee   ("FOMC")   is
            a  separate  and  independent   statutory  body  within
            the   Federal  Reserve  System.     In  no   respect   is   it   an
            agent  or   'subdivision'  of   the  Board.     It   was  originally
            established  by  the  Banking  Act  of   1933   and  restructured
            in   its   present   form  by  the  Banking  Act   of   1935  and
            subsequent   legislation  in   1942   (generally  see   12  U.S.C.
            §263(a)).     The  FOMC's   membership  is   composed  of   the  seven
            members  of   the  Board  of  Governors   of   the  Federal   Reserve
            System   ("Board  of   Governors")   and  five   representatives  of
                     Government   in   the  Sunshine  Act,  Pub.  L.   No.   94
           1/
                     409,   §2,   90  Stat.   1241   (1976).
           2/     Government   in   the  Sunshine  Act,   Pub.  L.  No.   94
                     409,  §3(a),   90  Stat.   1241   (1976).
 2/15/77                                                      -   4   -
 the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  who   are   selected  annually
 in  accordance   with  the  procedures   set   forth   in
 Section   12A  of   the  Federal  Reserve  Act,   12  U.S.C.
  §263(a).     Members  of   the  Board  of  Governors   serve
 in  an   ex  officio   capacity  on   the  FOMC  by   reason  of
 their  appointment  as  Members  of   the  Board  of
 Governors,  not  as   a  result  of   an  appointment   "to
 such  position"   (the  FOMC)   by  the   President.
 Representatives  of   the  Reserve  Banks   serve  on  the
 FOMC   not   as   a   result  of   an  appointment   "to   such
 position"   by  the  President,   but  rather  by  virtue
 of   their  positions  with   the  Reserve   Banks  and  their
 selection  pursuant   to   Section   12A  of   the  Federal
Reserve  Act.     It   is  clear   therefore  that
                                                                                                    the  FOMC
does  not   fall   within  the   scope  of   an   'agency'
                                                                                                                or
 'subdivision'  as  defined   in  the   Sunshine
                                                                                                    Act  and
consequently   is  not   subject   to   the  provisions
                                                                                                                of
that   Act.
             As  explained  below,  the  Act   would  not   require
 the  FOMC  to   hold  its  meetings   in   open  session   even
 if   the  FOMC   were  covered  by  the  Act.     However,
 despite  the  conclusion  reached   that  the   Sunshine
 Act   does  not   apply   to   the   FOMC,   the  FOMC  has
 determined  that   its  procedures   and  timing  of   public
 disclosure  already  are  conducted   in  accordance  with
 the  spirit  of  the   Sunshine  Act,   as   that  Act  would
 apply  to   deliberations  of   the  nature  engaged   in   by
 the  FOMC.
             In  the   foregoing  regard,  the  FOMC  has  noted
 that  while   the  Act   calls   generally   for  open  meetings
 of  multi-member   Federal  agencies,  10  specific
 exemptions   from  the   open  meeting  requirement   are
 provided  to   assure   the  ability  of   the  Government   to
 carry  out   its  responsibilities.     Among   the  exemp
 tions  provided  is   that  which   authorizes   any  agency
 operating  under  the  Act   to   conduct  closed  meetings
 where  the   subject  of   a  meeting   involves   information
 "the  premature   disclosure  of   which  would--in  the
 case  of   an  agency  which   regulates  currencies,
 securities,  commodities,  or   financial   institutions,
2/15/77
                                                                        -   5  -
            be  likely   to   lead  to  significant   financial   specula
            tion   in   currencies,   securities,  or   commodities."3/
                        As   to  meetings   closed  under   such  exemption,  the
            Act  requires  the  maintenance  of  either  a  transcript,
            electronic   recording  or  minutes  and  sets   forth
            specified,   detailed  requirements   as  to  the  contents
            and  timing  of  disclosure  of   certain  portions  or   all
            of   such  minutes.     The  Act   permits  the  withholding
            from  the  public   of   the  minutes  where  disclosure
            would  be  likely  to  produce  adverse   consequences  of
            the   nature  described  in   the  relevant   exemptions.
                        The  FOMC  has  reviewed  the   agenda  of   its  monthly
            meetings   for   the  past  three  years   and  has  determined
            that   all   such  meetings   could  have  been   closed  pur
            suant   to  the   exemption   dealing  with  financial
            speculation  or  other  exemptions  set   forth   in  the
            Sunshine  Act.     The  FOMC  has   further  determined   that
            virtually  all   of   its  substantive   deliberations   could
            have  been  preserved  pursuant   to  the  Act's  minutes
            requirements   and  that   such  minutes   could  similarly
            have  been  protected  against   premature  disclosure
            under  the  provisions  of   the  Act.
                        The  FOMC's  deliberations  are   currently  reported
            by  means  of   a  document   entitled  "Record  of   Policy
            Actions"   which  is   released  to  the  public   approxi
            mately  one  month  after   the  meeting   to  which  it
            relates.     The  Record  of   Policy  Actions   complies  with
            the  Act's  minutes  requirements   in   that   it  contains
            a  full  and  accurate  report   of   all  matters  of   policy
            discussed   and  views  presented,  clearly  sets  forth
            all   policy  actions  taken  by   the  FOMC  and  the   reasons
            therefor,   and  includes   the  votes  by  individual
            members  on   each  policy   action.     The  timing  of
            release  of   the   Record  of  Policy  Actions  is   fully
            consistent  with  the  Act's   provisions  assuring
            against   premature  release  of  any  item  of   discussion
            in   an  agency's  minutes   that   contains   information
            of   a  sensitive   financial  nature.     In  fact,   by
            3/     Government   in   the  Sunshine  Act,  Pub.  L.   No.   94
                      409,   §3(a),   90  Stat.   1242   (1976).
2/15/77                                                                -   6   -
            releasing  the   comprehensive  Record  of   Policy  Actions
            to   the  public  approximately  a  month  after  each
            meeting,  the  FOMC   exceeds  the  publication   require
            ments   that  would  be  mandated  by  the  letter   of  the
            Sunshine  Act.
                        Recognizing   the  Congressional   purpose  under
            lying   enactment  of   the  Sunshine  Act,   the  FOMC  has
            determined  to   continue   its  current  practice  and
            timing  of   public  disclosures   in   the  conviction
            that  its   operations  thus   conducted  are  consistent
            with  the  intent   and  spirit   of  the  Sunshine  Act.
                        By  unanimous   vote,  the  minutes  of   actions  taken   at
the  meeting  of   the  Federal  Open  Market   Committee  held  on
January  17-18,   1977,  were  approved.
                        By  unanimous  vote,  the   Committee  amended  Section
 271.6(a)  of  its  Rules   Regarding  Availability  of   Information   to
 read  as   follows,   effective  March  12,   1977:
            271.6   Information  not  Disclosed
                        Except   as  may  be  authorized   by   the  Committee,
            information  of  the  Committee  that   is  not   available
            to   the  public  through  other   sources  will   not  be
            published  or  made   available   for   inspection,  examina
            tion,  or   copying  by  any  person   if   such  information
                         (a)     is   specifically  exempted   from  dis
                                    closure  by  statute   (other  than
                                    section   552b  of  Title   5  United
                                    States  Code),   provided  that   such
                                    statute   (A)   requires  that   the
                                    matters  be  withheld  from   the  public
                                    in  such  a  manner   as  to   leave  no  dis
                                    cretion   on  the   issue,  or   (B)   estab
                                    lishes  particular   criteria   for  with
                                    holding  or  refers   to  particular
2/15/77                                                                  -    7  -
                                     types  of  matters   to  be  withheld;   or
                                      is  specifically   authorized  under
                                     criteria   established  by  an   executive
                                     order   to   be  kept  secret   in  the
                                      interest   of  national  defense  or
                                      foreign  policy   and   is   in   fact
                                     properly   classified   pursuant   to
                                      such  executive   order.
                                                         *        *         *         *        *
                        By  unanimous   vote,   System  open  market   transactions
 in  foreign   currencies  during  the  period  January   18,   1977,
through  February  14,   1977,  were   approved,  ratified,   and
confirmed.
                         By  unanimous   vote,  System  open  market   transactions
 in  Government   securities,   agency  obligations,   and  bankers'
acceptances  during  the  period  January  18,   1977,   through
February   14,   1977,  were  approved,  ratified,   and  confirmed.
                         By  unanimous   vote,  the  Federal   Reserve  Bank  of   New
York  was  authorized  and  directed,  until  otherwise   directed  by
 the  Committee,  to  execute  transactions   in  the   System  Account
 in   accordance  with   the  following   domestic  policy  directive:
                        The   information  reviewed   at   this  meeting
             suggests   underlying  strength   in   economic  activity,
             although   industrial  production   and  retail   sales
             were  held  down   in   January  by   the  effects  of
            unusually   severe  weather.    Housing   starts  rose
             sharply   in   December,  and   labor  market  surveys
             completed  by  mid-January   indicated  a  further  rise
             in  employment   and  a  decline   in  the  unemployment
             rate  from   7.8  to  7.3  per  cent.     The  wholesale
            price   index  for   all   commodities   continued  to
eted  by  mid-January   indicated  a  further  rise
             in  employment   and  a  decline   in  the  unemployment
             rate  from   7.8  to  7.3  per  cent.     The  wholesale
            price   index  for   all   commodities   continued  to

