3/21/78
                        Meeting  of  Federal  Open  Market   Committee
                                                        March  21,   1978
                                                     MINUTES  OF  ACTIONS
                        A  meeting  of   the  Federal  Open   Market   Committee  was
held  in  the  offices  of   the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal
Reserve  System  in  Washington,  D.   C.,   on   Tuesday,  March  21,
 1978,  beginning  at  9:00  a.m.
            PRESENT:     Mr.  Miller,  Chairman
                                    Mr.  Volcker,  Vice  Chairman
                                    Mr.  Baughman
                                    Mr.  Coldwell
                                    Mr.  Eastburn
                                    Mr.  Jackson
                                    Mr.  Partee
                                    Mr.  Wallich
                                    Mr.  Willes
                                    Mr.   Winn
                                    Messrs.  Balles,  Black,  Kimbrel,   and  Mayo,
                                                Alternate   Members  of  the  Federal   Open
                                                Market   Committee
                                    Messrs.  Guffey,   Morris,   and  Roos,  Presidents
                                                of   the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of   Kansas
                                                City,   Boston,  and  St.   Louis,   respectively
                                                Mr.  Broida,  Secretary
                                                Mr.  Altmann,  Deputy  Secretary
                                                Mr.  Bernard,  Assistant  Secretary
                                                Mr.  O'Connell,   General  Counsel
                                                Mr.  Axilrod,  Economist
                                                Messrs.  Burns,   J.  Davis,  Ettin,   Keir,
                                                            Kichline,   Paulus,  Truman,  and
                                                             Zeisel,  Associate  Economists
 3/21/78
                                                                         -   2  -
                                                 Mr.  Holmes,   Manager  System  Open  Market
                                                             Account
                                                 Mr.  Pardee,  Deputy  Manager   for  Foreign
                                                             Operations
                                                 Mr.  Sternlight,  Deputy  Manager  for
                                                             Domestic   Operations
                                                 Mr.  Coyne,  Assistant   to  the  Board  of
                                                             Governors
                                                 Mr.  Smith,1/   Chief,  Financial   Markets
                                                             Section,  Division  of   International
                                                             Finance,  Board  of   Governors
                                                 Mrs.  Farar,   Economist,  Open  Market
                                                             Secretariat,   Board  of  Governors
                                                 Mrs.   Deck,  Staff  Assistant,   Open  Market
                                                             Secretariat,   Board  of   Governors
                                                 Messrs.   Balbach,  Boehne,   Eisenmenger,
                                                             Scheld,   and  Sims,  Senior  Vice
                                                             Presidents,  Federal   Reserve  Banks
                                                             of   St.   Louis,   Philadelphia,  Boston,
                                                             Chicago,   and  San  Francisco,
                                                             respectively
                                                 Messrs.   Brandt,  Broaddus,  T.  Davis,   and
                                                             Fousek,  Vice  Presidents,  Federal
                                                             Reserve  Banks   of  Atlanta,  Richmond,
                                                             Kansas  City,  and  New  York,  respectively
                                                 Ms.  Clarkin,  Securities  Trading  Officer,
                                                             Federal  Reserve  Bank  of   New  York
                         In  the   agenda  for   this  meeting,  it   was  reported
 that   advices   of  the   election  of   the  following  members   and
 alternate  members   of   the  Federal  Open  Market   Committee   for
 the  year  commencing  March  1,   1978,   had  been  received  by   the
 Secretary  and  the  named  individuals   had  executed  their  oaths
of  office.
 1/     Left  the  meeting  at   the  point   indicated.
3/21/78                                                               -   3   -
                         The  elected  members   and   alternate  members  were
 as  follows:
David  P.   Eastburn,  President  of   the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
            Philadelphia,  with  Robert  P.  Black,  President   of  the
             Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Richmond,   as   alternate;
Paul  A.   Volcker,  President   of   the  Federal   Reserve  Bank  of
            New  York,  with  Thomas  M.  Timlen,   First  Vice  President
             of   the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  as   alternate;
Willis  J.  Winn,  President  of   the  Federal  Reserve   Bank  of
             Cleveland,  with  Robert   P.  Mayo,  President  of   the   Federal
            Reserve  Bank  of  Chicago,   as   alternate;
Ernest  T.  Baughman,  President   of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
            Dallas,  with  Monroe   Kimbrel,  President   of  the  Federal
            Reserve  Bank  of  Atlanta,  as   alternate;
Mark  H.   Willes,  President  of   the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
            Minneapolis,  with  John  J.  Balles,  President  of   the
            Federal   Reserve  Bank  of  San  Francisco,   as  alternate.
                        By  unanimous  vote,   the  following  officers  of  the
Federal  Open  Market   Committee  were  elected  to   serve  until
the   election  of  their   successors   at  the   first   meeting  of
 the  Committee   after  February  28,   1979,  with  the  understanding
 that   in   the  event   of  the   discontinuance  of  their  official
connection  with  the  Board  of   Governors   or  with   a  Federal
Reserve  Bank,  as  the   case  might   be,  they  would   cease   to  have
 any  official   connection  with   the  Federal  Open   Market  Committee:
G.   William  Miller                                                           Chairman
Paul  A.   Volcker                                                             Vice  Chairman
3/21/78                                                               -   4   -
Arthur  L.  Broida                                                             Secretary
Murray  Altmann                                                                Deputy   Secretary
Normand  R.  V.  Bernard                                                       Assistant  Secretary
Thomas  J.  O'Connell                                                          General  Counsel
Edward  G.  Guy                                                                Deputy  General  Counsel
Robert   E.  Mannion                                                           Assistant   General  Counsel
 Stephen  H.  Axilrod                                                          Economist
 Joseph  Burns,  John  M.  Davis,
     Richard  G.  Davis,  Edward
     Ettin,  Ira  Kaminow,  Peter  M.
     Keir,   James  L.  Kichline,
     John  Paulus,  John  E.  Reynolds,
     Edwin  M.  Truman,  Joseph  S.
     Zeisel                                                                    Associate  Economists
                        By   unanimous  vote,  the  Federal   Reserve  Bank  of
New  York  was  selected  to   execute  transactions   for  the  System
Open  Market   Account  until  the  adjournment   of   the   first
meeting  of   the  Federal  Open  Market   Committee  after  February
 28,   1979.
                        By   unanimous  vote,  Alan  R.  Holmes,  Peter  D.
 Sternlight,  and  Scott  E.  Pardee  were  selected  to   serve  at
 the  pleasure  of  the  Committee  in  the  capacities  of  Manager
of   the  System  Open  Market  Account,  Deputy  Manager  for
Domestic  Operations,  and  Deputy  Manager   for  Foreign  Operations,
respectively,   on  the  understanding  that   their  selection  was
subject   to  their  being  satisfactory   to  the   Federal  Reserve
Bank  of  New  York.
                        Secretary's  note:                            Advice  was  subsequently
                        received  that   the  selections   indicated  above
                        were  satisfactory   to  the   Federal   Reserve
                        Bank  of   New  York.
 3/21/78                                                              -   5  -
                         By  unanimous  vote,   the  minutes  of  actions  taken
 at   the  meetings  of   the  Federal  Open   Market  Committee   held  on
 February  28  and  March  10,  1978,  were   approved.
                         By  unanimous  vote,  System  open  market  transactions
 in   foreign  currencies  during  the  period  February  28   through
 March  20,   1978,  were  ratified.
                        By  unanimous  vote,  paragraph  1B  of   the  Procedural
 Instructions  was   amended,  effective   immediately,  to   read  as
 follows:
                      B.     Any   transaction  which  would  result   in   gross
                      transactions   (excluding  swap   drawings  and  repay
                      ments  and  purchases  and  sales  of   any  currencies
                      incidential  to   such  repayments),   in   a  single
                      foreign  currency   exceeding  $200  million  on   any
                      day   or  $500  million  since  the  most   recent   regular
                      meeting  of   the  Committee.
                        By  unanimous  vote,   the  paragraphs  of   the  Procedural
 Instructions   not   affected  by   the  preceding  action  were
reaffirmed.    Relecting  the  amendment   to  paragraph   1B  the
Instructions   read  as   follows:
                                              PROCEDURAL  INSTRUCTIONS
                                    In   conducting  operations  pursuant   to   the
            authorization   and  direction  of  the   Federal  Open
            Market  Committee  as   set  forth   in  the  Authorization
            for  Foreign  Currency  Operations   and  the  Foreign
            Currency  Directive,   the  Federal   Reserve  Bank  of
            New  York,  through  the  Manager  of  the  System  Open
            Market   Account,   shall  be  guided  by  the   following
            procedural   understandings  with  respect   to   con
            sultations   and  clearance  with   the  Committee,  the
            Foreign  Currency  Subcommittee,   and  the   Chairman  of
            the  Committee.     All  operations  undertaken   pursuant
            to   such  clearances   shall  be  reported  promptly  to
            the   Committee.
                                                                                 -
3/21/78                                                                 -   6
            1.     The  Manager   shall  clear  with  the  Subcommittee   (or
            with  the  Chairman,  if   the  Chairman  believes   that  con
            sultation  with  the   Subcommittee   is  not   feasible   in   the
            time  available):
                      A.     Any  transaction  which  would  result   in  a
                      change  in   the  System's  over-all   open  position
                      in  foreign  currencies   exceeding  $100  million
                      on  any   day  or  $300  million   since  the  most
                      recent   regular  meeting  of   the  Committee.
                      B.     Any  transaction  which  would  result   in  gross
                      transactions   (excluding  swap   drawings  and  repay
                     ments   and  purchases  and  sales  of   any  currencies
                      incidential   to   such  repayments),   in   a  single
                      foreign  currency  exceeding  $200  million   on   any
                      day  or   $500  million  since   the  most   recent  regular
                     meeting  of  the   Committee.
                      C.     Any  swap   drawing  proposed  by  a  foreign  bank
                      not   exceeding  the   larger  of   (i)  $200  million  or
                      (ii)   15  per  cent   of   the  size  of   the  swap   arrange
                      ment.
            2.     The  Manager  shall   clear  with  the  Committee   (or  with
            the   Subcommittee,   if   the  Subcommittee  believes  that
            consultation  with  the  full  Committee   is  not   feasible
            in  the  time  available,   or  with  the  Chairman,   if  the
            Chairman  believes  that   consultation  with  the  Sub
            committee  is  not   feasible   in  the  time  available):
                      A.     Any  transaction  which  would  result   in   a
                      change   in   the  System's  over-all  open  position
                      in  foreign  currencies   exceeding  $500   million
                      since  the  most   recent  regular  meeting  of  the
                      Committee.
                     B.     Any  swap  drawing  proposed  by  a  foreign
                      bank  exceeding  the   larger  of   (i)  $200  million
                      or   (ii)   15   per  cent   of   the   size  of  the  swap
                      arrangement.
            3.     The  Manager  shall   also  consult  with  the  Sub
            committee  or  the  Chairman  about  proposed  swap  drawings
            by  the  System,  and  about  any   transactions   that   are
            not   of  a  routine   character.
  3/21/78                                                              -   7  -
                          Pursuant   to  paragraph  1D  of  the  Authorization   for
  Foreign  Currency  Operations,  the  Committee,  by  unanimous  vote,
  expressly   authorized  an  over-all  open  position  in   foreign
  currencies  of  $2.25   billion,  effective  immediately.
                          Renewal  for   further  periods  of   3  months  of  System
  drawings  on   the  German  Federal  Bank  maturing  in  the  period
  April  3  through  June  30,   1978,  and  a  drawing  on  the  Swiss
  National   Bank  maturing  on  April  26,   1978,  was   authorized.
                         Prior  to  the  following  action,   Mr.  Smith   left  the
 meeting.
                         By  unanimous  vote,   System  open  market  transactions
 in  Government   securities,   agency  obligations,   and  bankers'
 acceptances   during   the  period  February  28   through  March  20,
 1978,  were  ratified.
                        By   unanimous  vote,   the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New
York  was   authorized  and  directed,  until   otherwise  directed  by
the  Committee,  to   execute  transactions  in   the  System  Account
 in   accordance  with  the  following  domestic  policy  directive:
                                    The  information  reviewed  at   this  meeting
                        suggests  that   growth   in   real  output  of  goods
                        and  services  has  been  adversely   affected  in   the
                        current   quarter  by  unusually  severe  weather   and
                        the   lengthy  strike  in   coal  mining  but   that   there
                        has  been   little  change   in  the  underlying  economic
                        situation.     In  February  industrial  production
       the   lengthy  strike  in   coal  mining  but   that   there
                        has  been   little  change   in  the  underlying  economic
                        situation.     In  February  industrial  production

