                                                                                                 Committee
                        Meeting   of  Federal  Open  Market
                                                       March  20,   1979
                                                   MINUTES  OF  ACTIONS
                        A  meeting   of  the  Federal  Open  Market   Committee  was
held   in  the  offices  of   the  Board  of  Governors  of   the  Federal
Reserve  System   in  Washington,  D.  C.,    on  Tuesday,  March  20,
 1979,  beginning   at  9:30  a.m.
            PRESENT:     Mr.  Miller,  Chairman
                                    Mr.  Volcker,  Vice  Chairman
                                    Mr.  Balles
                                    Mr.  Black
                                    Mr.  Coldwell
                                    Mr.  Kimbrel
                                    Mr.  Mayo
                                    Mr.  Partee
                                    Mrs.  Teeters
                                    Mr.  Wallich
                                    Messrs.  Guffey,  Morris,  Roos,   and  Winn,
                                                Alternate  Members  of  the  Federal  Open
                                                Market  Committee
                                    Messrs.  Baughman,   and  Eastburn,  Presidents  of
                                                the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  Dallas   and
                                                Philadelphia,   respectively
                                                Mr.  Altmann,  Secretary
                                                Mr.  Bernard,  Assistant   Secretary
                                                Mr.  Mannion,  Assistant   General  Counsel
                                                Mr.  Axilrod,  Economist
                                                Messrs.  Brandt,  Ettin,   Henry,  Keir,   Keran,
                                                            Kichline,   Scheld,  Truman,   and  Zeisel,
                                                            Associate  Economists
                                                Mr.  Holmes,  Manager  System  Open  Market
                                                            Account
                                                Mr.  Pardee,  Deputy   Manager  for  Foreign
                                                            Operations
                                                                              -
 3/20/79                                                             -   2
                                                Mr.  Sternlight,  Deputy  Manager  for
                                                            Domestic  Operations
                                                Mr.  Coyne,  Assistant   to   the  Board  of
                                                            Governors
                                                Mr.  Kalchbrenner,  Associate  Director,
                                                            Division  of  Research  and  Statistics,
                                                            Board  of  Governors
                                                Ms.   Farar,  Economist,  Open  Market
                                                            Secretariat,   Board  of  Governors
                                                Mrs.   Deck,  Staff  Assistant,  Open  Market
                                                            Secretariat,   Board  of  Governors
                                                Messrs.   Gainor  and  McIntosh,  First  Vice
                                                            Presidents,  Federal  Reserve  Banks
                                                            of  Minneapolis  and  Boston,  respectively
                                                Messrs.  Balbach,  J.  Davis,   and  Eisenmenger,
                                                            Senior  Vice  Presidents,  Federal
                                                            Reserve  Banks  of  St.   Louis,  Cleveland,
                                                            and  Boston,  respectively
                                                Messrs.  Broaddus,  Burns,  Danforth,  T.
                                                            Davis,  Fousek,   and  Mullineaux,  Vice
                                                            Presidents,   Federal  Reserve  Banks
                                                            of   Richmond,  Dallas,  Minneapolis,
                                                            Kansas  City,  New  York,  and  Philadelphia,
                                                            respectively
                                                Ms.   Clarkin,  Securities  Trading  Officer,
                                                            Federal   Reserve  Bank   of  New  York
                        In  the   agenda  for  this  meeting,  it  was   reported
 that   advices  of  the  election  of  the  following  members  and
 alternate  members  of   the  Federal   Open  Market  Committee   for
 the  year  commencing  March  1,  1979,  had  been  received  by  the
Secretary  and  the   named  individuals  had  executed  their  oaths
of  office.
3/20/79                                                              -   3   -
                         The  elected  members   and  alternate  members  were
 as   follows:
 Robert  P.   Black,  President  of   the  Federal   Reserve  Bank  of
             Richmond,  with  Frank  E.   Morris,  President  of   the
             Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Boston,  as   alternate,
 Paul  A.   Volcker,  President  of   the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
            New  York,  with  Thomas  M.   Timlen,  First  Vice  President
             of   the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  as  alternate;
 Robert  P.   Mayo,  President   of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
             Chicago,  with  Willis  J.  Winn,  President  of   the  Federal
            Reserve  Bank  of   Cleveland,  as   alternate;
 Monroe  Kimbrel,  President   of  the  Federal   Reserve  Bank  of
            Atlanta,  with  Lawrence  K.   Roos,  President   of  the
            Federal   Reserve  Bank  of   St.   Louis,  as   alternate;
 John  J.   Balles,  President  of   the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
             San  Francisco,  with  Roger  Guffey,  President   of   the
            Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Kansas  City,   as  alternate.
            By  unanimous  vote,  the   following  officers  of   the  Federal
 Open  Market   Committee  were  elected   to  serve   until  the  election
 of  their  successors   at   the  first  meeting  of   the  Committee
 after  February  29,  1980,  with   the  understanding  that   in   the
 event  of   the  discontinuance  of   their  official   connection
with   the  Board  of  Governors  or  with   a  Federal   Reserve  Bank,
 as  the  case  might  be,   they  would  cease   to  have  any  official
 connection  with  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee:
G.   William  Miller                                                                  Chairman
Paul  A.   Volcker                                                                   Vice  Chairman
Murray  Altmann                                                                       Secretary
Normand  R.   V.   Bernard                                                           Assistant   Secretary
3/20/79                                                              -   4   -
Neal   L.   Petersen                                                                  General  Counsel
 James  H.   Oltman                                                                   Deputy  General   Counsel
 Robert  E.   Mannion                                                                 Assistant   General   Counsel
 Stephen  H.   Axilrod                                                                Economist
 Harry  Brandt,Richard  G.   Davis,
     Edward  Ettin,  George  Henry,
     Peter  M.   Keir,  Michael
     Keran,  James   L.   Kichline,
     James  Parthemos,  Karl
     Scheld,  Edwin  M.   Truman,
     Joseph  S.   Zeisel                                                              Associate  Economists
                        Secretary's  note:     On  March  6,   1979,   certain
                        continuing  authorizations   of   the   Committee,
                        listed  below,  had  been   distributed  by   the
                        Secretary  with  the   advice   that,   in  accordance
                        with  procedures   approved  by   the  Committee,
                        they  were  being  called  to   the  Committee's
                        attention  before   the  March  organization  meeting
                        to  give  members   an  opportunity   to  raise  any
                        questions   they  had  concerning  them.     Members
                        were   asked  to  so   indicate   if  they  wished   to
                        have  any  of   the   authorizations   in  question
                        placed  on   the  agenda  for  consideration   at   this
                        meeting,  and  no   such  requests  were  received.
                        The   authorizations  in  question  were   as   follows:
                        1.     Procedures   for  allocation  of  securities
                                  in  the   System  Open  Market  Account.
                        2.     List   of   Treasury  Department   officials   to
                                 whom  weekly   reports   on   open  market   opera
                                  tions  may  be  sent.
                        3.     Authority  for  the   Chairman  to   appoint   a
                                  Federal  Reserve  Bank  as  agent   to   operate
                                  the  System  Account   in   case   the  New  York
                                  Bank  is  unable  to   function.
                        4.     Resolutions   providing  for   continued  opera
                                  tion  of   the  Committee   and  for  certain
                                  actions  by  the   Reserve  Banks  during  an
                                  emergency.
3/20/79                                                              -   5  -
                         5.     Resolution   relating  to   examinations  of   the
                                  System  Open  Market   Account.
                         6.     Guidelines   for  the  conduct   of  System  opera
                                  tions   in  Federal  agency  issues.
                         7.     Regulation   relating  to  Open  Market  Opera
                                  tions  of   Federal  Reserve  Banks.
                         8.     Rules   of  Organization,  Rules   Regarding
                                  Availability   of   Information,   and  Rules   of
                                  Procedure.
                        By  unanimous  vote,  the  Federal   Reserve  Bank  of  New
 York  was   selected  to  execute  transactions   for  the   System
 Open  Market   Account  until   the  adjournment  of   the   first
meeting   of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee   after  February
 29,   1980.
                        By  unanimous  vote,   Alan  R.   Holmes,  Peter  D.
 Sternlight,   and  Scott  E.   Pardee  were  selected  to  serve  at
 the  pleasure  of   the  Committee   in  the  capacities   of  Manager
 of  the   System  Open  Market  Account,  Deputy  Manager   for
Domestic  Operations,   and  Deputy  Manager  for  Foreign  Operations,
 respectively,   on  the  understanding   that   their  selection  was
 subject  to   their  being  satisfactory   to  the   Federal  Reserve
Bank  of  New  York.
                         Secretary's  note:                          Advice  was  subsequently
                         received  that   the  selections   indicated   above
                         were   satisfactory  to   the  Federal  Reserve
                         Bank  of  New  York.
3/20/79                                                               -   6   -
                        By  unanimous   vote,  the  minutes  of   actions  taken   at
 the  meetings  of   the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  held  on
 February   6  and  March  2,   1979,  were   approved.
                        By   unanimous  vote,   System  open  market   transactions
 in   foreign  currencies  during  the  period  February   6  through
 March   19,   1979,  were   ratified.
                        By  unanimous  vote,   System  open  market   transactions
 in  Government   securities,   agency  obligations,   and  bankers'
 acceptances  during  the   period  February  6   through  March  19,
 1979,   were   ratified.
                        With  Messrs.  Coldwell,  Kimbrel,  Volcker,   and
Wallich   dissenting,  the  Federal   Reserve  Bank  of  New  York  was
 authorized  and  directed,  until  otherwise  directed  by  the
Committee,   to   execute  transactions   in  the  System  Account   in
 accordance  with  the   following  domestic  policy  directive:
                        The   information  reviewed  at   this  meeting
            suggests   that  in  the   current   quarter  growth   in
            real  output  of   goods   and  services   has  moderated
            from  the  rapid  rate  in  the   last  quarter  of  1978,
            while   the  rise  in  prices  has   accelerated.     In
            January  and  February  the   dollar   value  of  total
            retail   sales  rose  slightly  further.    Nonfarm
            payroll  employment  continued   to  expand  over   the
            two-month  period,  but   in  part  because  of   severe
            weather,   industrial  production  increased  little.
            The   unemployment  rate   in  February,   at  5.7  per
            cent,  was   virtually  unchanged  from  its   level   in
            January  and  in   late  1978.     Over  recent  months,
            on  balance,   the  index   of   average  hourly   earnings
            has   continued  to  rise   rapidly.
3/20/79                                                             -    7  -
                        The   trade-weighted  value  of  the  dollar   against
            major  foreign  currencies  has   shown   no  net   change
            since  early  February.     The  U.   S.   trade  deficit   in
            January  was   larger  than   the  monthly  average   in   the
            fourth  quarter  of   1978,  to   some  extent  because   of
            a  bulge  in   imports  of   oil.
                        M-1  declined  in  both  January  and  February,  in
            part  because   of   the  continuing  effects  of   the  growth
            of  the   automatic  transfer   service.     With  market
            interest  rates  continuing  high,   inflows  of   the
            interest-bearing  deposits   included  in  M-2  and  M-3
            remained  at   reduced  levels,   despite  substantial
            flows   into  money  market   certificates   at  both
            commercial  banks  and  nonbank   thrift  institutions.
            Over  the  two  months,   consequently,   M-2   changed
            little  and  M-3  grew  at  a  relatively  slow  rate.
            The  behavior  of   all  three  monetary   aggregates  was
            affected  by   shifts  of   funds   from  deposits   to  money
            market  mutual  funds   and  other  liquid   assets.     Most
            market  interest   rates  have  risen   in  recent  weeks,
            after  having  declined   in   January.
                        Taking   account  of  past   and  prospective  develop
           ments   in  employment,  unemployment,   production,   in
            vestment,  real  income,  productivity,   international
            trade  and  payments,   and  prices,   it   is  the  policy  of
            the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  to   foster  monetary
            and  financial  conditions   that   will   resist   inflationary
            pressures  while   encouraging  moderate  economic   expansion
            and  contributing  to  a   sustainable  pattern  of   inter
            national   transactions.    The  Committee   agreed  that
            these  objectives  would  be  furthered  by  growth  of  M-1,
           M-2,   and  M-3  from  the   fourth  quarter   of   1978  to   the
            fourth  quarter  of   1979  within  ranges   of   1-1/2  to
            4-1/2  percent,   5  to  8  percent,   and  6   to  9  percent,
            respectively.     The  associated  range  for  bank  credit
            is   7-1/2   to  10-1/2  percent.     These  ranges  will  be
            reconsidered  in  July  or   at   any  time  as  conditions
           warrant.
                        In   the  short   run,  the  Committee  seeks  to   achieve
           bank  reserve  and  money  market   conditions  that  are
           broadly   consistent  with   the   longer-run  ranges  for
           monetary   aggregates  cited  above,  while  giving   due
            regard  to  the  program  for  supporting  the  foreign
            exchange  value   of   the   dollar  and  to   developing
            conditions   in  domestic  financial  markets.     Early
            in   the  period  before  the  next   regular  meeting,
  for  supporting  the  foreign
            exchange  value   of   the   dollar  and  to   developing
            conditions   in  domestic  financial  markets.     Early
            in   the  period  before  the  next   regular  meeting,

