                                                                                                    Committee
                          Meeting  of  Federal  Open  Market
                                                          August  14,  1979
                                                        MINUTES  OF  ACTIONS
                        A  meeting  of   the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  was
held  in  the  offices   of   the  Board  of   Governors  of   the   Federal
Reserve  System   in  Washington,  D.   C.,   on  Tuesday,  August   14,
1979,  beginning  at   9:30  a.m.
            PRESENT:    Mr.  Volcker,   Chairman
                                    Mr.  Balles
                                    Mr.  Black
                                    Mr.  Coldwell
                                    Mr.  Kimbrel
                                    Mr.  Mayo
                                    Mr.  Partee
                                    Mr.   Rice
                                    Mr.  Schultz
                                    Mrs.  Teeters
                                    Mr.  Wallich
                                    Messrs.   Guffey,  Morris,  Roos,  Timlen,   and  Winn,
                                                Alternate  Members  of   the  Federal  Open  Market
                                                Committee
                                    Messrs.   Baughman,  Eastburn,  and  Willes,  Presidents
                                                of   the  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  Dallas,
                                                Philadelphia,  and  Minneapolis,  respectively
                                                Mr.  Altmann,  Secretary
                                                Mr.  Bernard  1/,  Assistant   Secretary
                                                Mr.  Oltman   1/,   Deputy  General  Counsel
                                                Mr.  Mannion  1/,   Assistant   General  Counsel
                                                Mr.  Axilrod  1/,   Economist
                                                Mr.  Holmes  1/,  Adviser  for  Market  Operations
                                                Messrs.  Brandt  1/,   R.   Davis   1/,   Keir   1/,
                                                            Scheld  1/,   Truman   1/,   and  Zeisel   1/,
                                                            Associate  Economists
1/     Entered  the  meeting  prior  to  the   vote  to   approve  the  Minutes
         of  Actions.
8/14/79                                                                       -   2   -
                                                 Mr.   Sternlight   1/,   Manager   for  Domestic
                                                             Operations,   System  Open  Market   Account
                                                 Mr.  Pardee   1/,   Manager  for  Foreign   Opera
                                                             tions,   System  Open  Market  Account
                                                 Mr.   Coyne  1/,   Assistant   to   the  Board  of
                                                             Governors
                                                 Messrs.   Farnsworth  1/2/     and  Siegman   1/,
                                                             Associate  Directors,   Division  of
                                                             Federal   Reserve  Bank  Examinations  and
                                                             Budgets   and  Division   of  International
                                                             Finance,respectively,  Board  of  Governors
                                                 Mr.   Prell  1/,   Associate  Research  Division
                                                             Officer,  Division  of   Research  and
                                                             Statistics,  Board  of   Governors
                                                 Mr.   Robinson  1/2/,   Manager,  Financial
                                                             Examinations,  Division   of  Federal
                                                             Reserve   Bank  Examinations  and  Budgets,
                                                             Board  of   Governors
                                                 Ms.   Farar  1/,   Economist,  Open  Market
                                                             Secretariat,   Board  of   Governors
                                                 Mrs.   Deck  1/,   Staff   Assistant,  Open  Market
                                                             Secretariat,   Board  of   Governors
                                                 Mr.  Smoot   1/,   First  Vice  President,   Federal
                                                             Reserve  Bank  of   Philadelphia
                                                  Messrs.  Burns   1/   and  J.   Davis   1/,   Senior
                                                              Vice  Presidents,  Federal   Reserve  Banks
                                                              of   Dallas   and  Cleveland,  respectively
                                                  Messrs.  Broaddus     1/, Danforth  1/,   T.   Davis  1/,
                                                              and  Fieleke   1/,   Vice  Presidents,   Federal
                                                              Reserve  Banks  of  Richmond,  Minneapolis,
                                                              Kansas   City,   and  Boston,  respectively
                                                 Mr.   Burger   1/,   Assistant  Vice  President,
                                                             Federal   Reserve  Bank  of   St.   Louis
                                                 Mr.  Levin   1/,   Manager,  Securities   Department,
                                                              Federal  Reserve  Bank  of   New  York
 1/     Entered   the  meeting  prior   to  the  vote   to  approve   the  Minutes
          of   Actions.
 2/     Left   the  meeting   following   the  vote   to  accept   the   Report   of
          Examinations  of   System  Open  Market  Account.
 8/14/79                                                                  -   3   -
                         By  unanimous  vote,  the  Committee  elected  Paul   A.   Volcker
 to  serve  as   Chairman  for  the  period  until  the   election  of   a  suc
 cessor   at   the   first  meeting  of  the  Committee  after  February  29,
 1980,  with  the   understanding  that  in  the  event   of  the   discon
 tinuance  of  his  offical  connection  with  the  Board  of   Governors
 of   the  Federal   Reserve  System,,  he  would  cease   to   have  any
 official   connection  with   the  Federal   Open  Market   Committee.
                        By  unanimous  vote,  Alan  R.   Holmes  was  elected  Adviser
 for  Market   Operations  for  the  period  until   the  election  of  a
 successor   at   the  first  meeting   of  the  Committee  after   February
 29,   1980,  with  the   understanding  that   in  the   event  of   the   dis
 continuance  of  his  official  connection  with  the  Federal  Reserve
 Bank  of  New  York,  he  would  cease  to  have  any  official  connection
with   the  Federal  Open  Market   Committee.
                        By  unanimous   vote,  Peter  D.   Sternlight,   and  Scott   E.
Pardee  were   selected   to  serve  at  the  pleasure  of   the  Committee
 in   the  capacities   of  Manager  for  Domestic  Operations,   System
Open  Market  Account,   and  Manager  for  Foreign  Operations,  System
Open  Market  Account,   respectively,  on   the  understanding   that
 their  selection  was  subject   to  their  being  satisfactory   to  the
Federal  Reserve  Bank  of   New  York.
                        Secretary's  note;     Advice  was  subsequently
                        received  that   the   selection  of  the   Managers
                        indicated  above  were  satisfactory  to   the
                        Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York.
                        By  unanimous  vote,  Sections   4   and  5  of   the  Rules  of
Organization  were   amended  to  read  as  follows:
8/14/79                                                                 -   4   -
                                                   RULES  OF  ORGANIZATION
                                                          SECTION  4--STAFF:
                        (a)     Selection   of  staff   officers.--At   its   first
            meeting  on   or  after  March  1  of   each  year,   the
            Committee   selects,  from  among  the  officers   and
            employees  of   the  Board   and  the  Federal  Reserve  Banks,
            the   following  staff  officers  to  serve   until  the   first
            meeting  on  or   after  March  1  of  the  next  following
            year:           Secretary,  Deputy  Secretary,   and  one  or  more
            Assistant  Secretaries;   General  Counsel,  Deputy  General
            Counsel,   and  one  or  more  Assistant  General   Counsels;
            Economists,   one  or  more   of  whom  may  be  designated  as
            Senior  or  Associate  Economists  or  given  titles
            reflecting  their   areas   of  particular  specialization;
            and  such  other  officers   as   the  Committee  might  wish
            from  time  to   time.
                                                     SECTION  5--MANAGERS
                        The   Committee  selects  a  Manager  for  Domestic
            Operations,   System  Open  Market  Account;   and  a
            Manager  for  Foreign  Operations,  System  Open  Market
            Account.     The  foregoing   shall  be  satisfactory  to
            the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  selected  by  the  Committee
            to   execute  open   market  transactions   for  such
            Account   and  shall  serve   at   the  pleasure  of
            the  Committee.     The  Managers  keep  the  Committee
            informed  on  market   conditions   and  on   transactions
            they  have  made  and  render   such  reports   as   the
            Committee  may  specify.
                        By  unanimous   vote,   subsections   (d)  and  (e)  of   Section
272.3  of   the  Rules  of  Procedure     were  amended   to  read  as  follows:
                                                     RULES  OF  PROCEDURE
                                                SECTION  272.3--MEETINGS
                        (d)     Attendance  at  meetings.--Attendance   at
            Committee  meetings   is  restricted  to  members  and
            alternate  members   of   the  Committee,  the   Presidents
            of  Federal  Reserve  Banks  who   are  not   at   the  time
            members  or   alternates,  staff   officers  of  the
            Committee,   the  Managers,  and  such  other  advisers
            as   the  Committee  may  invite  from  time  to  time.
 8/14/79
                                                                            -   5  -
                          (e)     Meeting     agendas.--The   Secretary,  in   con
             sultation  with  the  Chairman,  prepares  an  agenda  of
             matters  to  be  discussed  at  each  meeting  and  the
             Secretary   transmits   the  agenda  to  the  members   of   the
             Committee  within  a  reasonable  time   in  advance   of
             such  meeting.     In   general,  the  agendas   include
             approval  of  minutes  of   actions;   reports  by  the
             Managers  on  open  market  operations   since  the  pre
             vious  meeting,  and  ratification  by  the   Committee
             of  such  operations;   reports  by  Economists  on,   and
             Committee  discussion  of,   the  economic   and  financial
             situation  and  outlook;   Committee  discussion  of
            monetary  policy   and  action  with  respect   thereto;
             and  such  other  matters   as  may  be  considered
             necessary.
                        By  unanimous  vote,  the  Procedural   Instructions  with
Respect  to  Foreign  Currency  Operations  were   amended  to  read   as
follows:
                             PROCEDURAL   INSTRUCTIONS  WITH  RESPECT  TO
                                           FOREIGN  CURRENCY  OPERATIONS
                        In  conducting  operations  pursuant   to  the
            authorization  and  direction  of   the  Federal  Open
            Market   Committee  as   set  forth   in  the  Authorization
            for  Foreign  Currency  Operations  and  the  Foreign
            Currency  Directive,   the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
            New  York,  through   the  Manager   for  Foreign  Opera
            tions,   System  Open  Market   Account,   shall  be   guided
            by  the   following  procedural  understandings  with
            respect  to  consultations  and  clearance  with  the
            Committee,  the  Foreign  Currency  Subcommittee,  and
            the  Chairman   of   the  Committee.     All   operations
            undertaken  pursuant   to   such  clearances   shall  be
            reported  promptly  to  the  Committee.
            1.     The  Manager   for  Foreign  Operations  shall   clear
            with  the  Subcommittee   (or  with  the  Chairman,   if
            the  Chairman  believes  that   consultation  with  the
            Subcommittee   is  not   feasible  in  the  time  available):
                        A.     Any  operation  which  would  result   in  a
                        change  in  the  System's  overall  open  position
                        in   foreign  currencies  exceeding  $300  million
                        on   any  day  or  $600  million  since  the  most
                        recent  regular  meeting  of   the   Committee.
8/14/79                                                                   -   6   -
                        B.     Any  operation  which  would  result   in  a   change
                         on   any  day   in   the  System's  net  position   in  a
                         single  foreign  currency  exceeding  $150   million,
                        or  $300  million  when  the  operation   is   associated
                        with  repayment   of  swap  drawings.
                        C.     Any  operation  which  might  generate  a  sub
                         stantial  volume  of   trading   in   a  particular
                         currency  by  the  System,   even  though  the  change
                         in  the  System's  net   position   in  that   currency
                        might  be   less  than   the   limits  specified  in   1B.
                        D.     Any  swap  drawing  proposed  by  a   foreign
                        bank  not   exceeding  the   larger  of   (i)   $200
                        million  or   (ii)   15  percent  of   the  size   of  the
                         swap  arrangement.
             2.     The  Manager   for  Foreign  Operations  shall   clear
            with  the  Committee   (or  with  the   Subcommittee,   if
             the  Subcommittee  believes  that   consultation  with
            the   full   Committee   is  not   feasible  in  the  time
             available,   or  with  the   Chairman,  if  the   Chairman
            believes  that   consultation  with  the  Subcommittee
             is  not   feasible   in  the   time  available):
                        A.     Any  operation  which  would  result   in   a
                         change  in   the  System's   overall  open  position
                         in  foreign   currencies  exceeding  $1.5   billion
                        since   the  most  recent   regular  meeting   of   the
                        Committee.
                        B.     Any  swap  drawing  proposed  by  a   foreign
                        bank  exceeding  the   larger  of   (i)   $200  million
                        or   (ii)   15  percent   of  the  size  of  the   swap
                        arrangement.
             3.     The  Manager   for  Foreign  Operations   shall   also
             consult  with  the  Subcommittee  or  the   Chairman   about
            proposed  swap   drawings  by  the  System,  and  about   any
            operations   that   are  not   of   a  routine   character.
                        By  unanimous  vote,   the  minutes  of   actions  taken   at   the
meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market   Committee  held  on  July   11,
 1979,  were  approved.
                         The  report   of   examination  of   the  System  Open. Market
 Account,  made  by  the  Board's  Division  of  Federal   Reserve  Bank
                                                                                    -
 8/14/79                                                                  -   7
 Examinations  and  Budgets   as  of  the   close   of  business  April  20,
 1979,  was  accepted.
                        By  unanimous  vote,  System  open  market   transactions   in
 foreign  currencies  during  the  period  July  11   through  August   13,
 1979,  were  ratified.
                        By  unanimous  vote,  the   amount  of   the  reciprocal
 currency  arrangement  with  the  Bank  of  Mexico  specified   in
 paragraph  2  of  the  Authorization  for  Foreign  Currency  Operations
was   raised  to  $700  million,   effective  August   17,   1979.
                        By  unanimous  vote,  System  open  market   transactions
 in  Government  securities,   agency  obligations,   and  bankers
 acceptances   during  the  period  July   11   through  August   13,   1979,
were   ratified.
                        With  Messrs.  Black  and  Rice   dissenting,   the  Federal
 Reserve  Bank  of  New  York  was  authorized  and  directed,  until
 otherwise  directed  by  the  Committee,   to  execute   transactions   in
 the  System  Account   in  accordance  with  the   following  domestic
policy   directive:
                        The  information   reviewed  at   this  meeting
          suggests   that  real   output   of  goods   and   services  is
          continuing  to   decline  in  the  current   quarter,  while
          prices  on  the   average  are  continuing  to   rise  rapidly.
          In  July  the  dollar  value  of  retail   sales   edged  up;   in
          real  terms,   sales  were   still  substantially  below
          those   of   last   December.     Growth  in  nonfarm  payroll
          employment   slowed   considerably  further,  but   the
          unemployment  rate,   at   5.7  percent,   remained  within
          the   narrow  range  prevailing  since   the  beginning  of
          the  year.     Industrial  production  declined  in  June,
          and  it   apparently  slackened  further   in  July   to
nt  rate,   at   5.7  percent,   remained  within
          the   narrow  range  prevailing  since   the  beginning  of
          the  year.     Industrial  production  declined  in  June,
          and  it   apparently  slackened  further   in  July   to

