                                                                                                      Committee
                             Meeting   of  Federal   Open  Market
                                                         March   18,   1980
                                                        Minutes   of  Actions
                        A  meeting  of   the  Federal  Open  Market   Committee  was
held   in  the   offices  of   the  Board  of  Governors  of   the  Federal
Reserve  System  in  Washington,  D.   C.,    on  Tuesday,  March   18,   1980,
at  9:30  a.m.
            PRESENT:     Mr.  Volcker,  Chairman
                                    Mr.   Guffey
                                    Mr.  Morris
                                    Mr.  Partee
                                    Mr.   Rice
                                    Mr.   Roos
                                    Mr.   Schultz
                                    Mrs.   Teeters
                                    Mr.  Wallich
                                    Mr.  Winn
                                    Messrs.  Baughman,  Eastburn,   Mayo,  Timlen,   and
                                                Willes,   Alternate   Members  of  the   Federal
                                                Open  Market   Committee
                                    Messrs.  Balles   and  Black,  Presidents   of  the
                                                Federal  Reserve  Banks   of   San   Francisco
                                                and  Richmond,  respectively
                                                Mr.  Altmann,   Secretary
                                                Mr.  Bernard,  Assistant   Secretary
                                                Mr.   Petersen,  General  Counsel
                                                Mr.  Oltman,   Deputy  General   Counsel
                                                Mr.   Mannion,   Assistant  General   Counsel
                                                Mr.   Axilrod,  Economist
                                                Mr.   Holmes,   Adviser  for   Market  Operations
                                                Messrs.   Balbach,  J.   Davis,   T.   Davis,
                                                            Eisenmenger,  Ettin,  Henry,  Keir,
                                                            Kichline,   Truman,   and   Zeisel,   Associate
                                                            Economists
                                                Mr.  Sternlight,   Manager  for  Domestic
                                                            Operations,   System  Open  Market   Account
                                                Mr.   Pardee,   Manager   for  Foreign  Operations,
                                                            System  Open  Market   Account
3/18/80                                                                   -   2  -
                                                Mr.  Coyne,   Assistant   to  the  Board  of
                                                            Governors
                                                Messrs.  Kalchbrenner  and  Prell  1/,
                                                            Associate  Directors,  Division   of
                                                            Research  and  Statistics,  Board  of
                                                            Governors
                                                Mr.  Gemmill,   Associate  Director,  Division
                                                            of   International  Finance,  Board  of
                                                            Governors
                                                Mr.  Beck,   Senior  Economist,   Banking
                                                            Section,   Division  of  Research   and
                                                            Statistics,   Board  of  Governors
                                                Ms.  Farar,   Economist,  Open  Market
                                                            Secretariat,   Board  of   Governors
                                                Mrs.  Deck,  Staff   Assistant,   Open  Market
                                                            Secretariat,   Board  of   Governors
                                                Mr.  Forrestal,  First   Vice  President,
                                                            Federal  Reserve   Bank  of  Atlanta
                                                Messrs.  Boehne,   Brandt,  Burns,  Corrigan,
                                                            Fousek,   Keran,  Parthemos,   and   Scheld,
                                                            Senior  Vice  Presidents,   Federal
                                                            Reserve  Banks   of  Philadelphia,  Atlanta,
                                                            Dallas,  New  York,  New  York,  San
                                                            Francisco,   Richmond,  and   Chicago,
                                                            respectively
                                                Mr.  Danforth,  Vice  President,   Federal
                                                            Reserve  Bank  of   Minneapolis
                                                Ms.  Clarkin,   Securities  Trading  Officer,
                                                            Federal   Reserve  Bank  of   New  York
                         In  the  agenda   for  this  meeting,   it  was   reported  that
 advices  of  the   election  of   the  following  members  and   alternate
members  of  the   Federal  Open   Market  Committee  for  the  year
 commencing  March   1,  1980,  had  been  received  by   the  Secretary
 and  the  named   individuals  had  executed  their   oaths  of   office.
 1/     Entered  the  meeting  prior  to  the  action  to   ratify  System
          open  market  transactions   in  foreign   currencies.
                                                                                    -
 3/18/80                                                                  -   3
                        The  elected  members  and  alternate  members  were  as
 follows:
Frank  E.  Morris,  President   of   the  Federal   Reserve  Bank  of
            Boston,  with  David  P.   Eastburn,  President   of  the
            Federal  Reserve   Bank  of  Philadelphia,  as   alternate;
Anthony  M.   Solomon*,  President  of   the  Federal   Reserve  Bank
            of   New  York,  with  Thomas  M.  Timlen,  First   Vice  President
            of   the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,   as  alternate;
Willis  J.  Winn,   President   of  the   Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
            Cleveland,  with   Robert  P.  Mayo,  President   of  the  Federal
            Reserve  Bank  of   Chicago,  as   alternate;
Lawrence  K.  Roos,  President  of  the   Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
            St.   Louis,  with   Ernest  T.  Baughman,  President  of   the
            Federal  Reserve   Bank  of  Dallas,   as  alternate;
Roger  Guffey,  President   of   the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
            Kansas  City,  with  Mark  H.  Willes,  President   of  the
            Federal  Reserve  Bank  of   Minneapolis,   as  alternate.
 *Election  effective  April   1,   1980,  when  he  is   scheduled   to
   become   President  of   the  Federal   Reserve  Bank  of  New  York
   and  to   execute   the  oath  of   office  as  member  of   the  Committee.
                        By  unanimous  vote,  the   following  officers  of   the
Federal   Open  Market   Committee  were  elected  to  serve  until   the
election  of  their  successors   at   the   first   meeting  of  the
Committee  after   February  28,   1981,   with  the  understanding   that
 in   the  event  of   the  discontinuance   of   their  official  connection
with  the  Board   of  Governors  or  with  a  Federal  Reserve  Bank,  as
the   case  might  be,  they  would  cease  to   have  any   official
connection  with   the  Federal   Open  Market   Committee:
Paul  A.  Volcker                                                                     Chairman
Anthony  M.   Solomon*                                                                Vice  Chairman
 *Effective  upon  execution  of   the  oath  of   office  as  member   of
   the  Committee.
3/18/80                                                                   -   4   -
 Murray  Altmann                                                                      Secretary
 Normand  R.   V.   Bernard                                                           Assistant  Secretary
 Neal   L.   Petersen                                                                 General  Counsel
 James  H.   Oltman                                                                   Deputy  General   Counsel
 Robert  E.   Mannion                                                                 Assistant   General  Counsel
 Stephen  H.   Axilrod                                                                Economist
 Alan  R.   Holmes                                                                    Adviser   for  Market   Operations
 Anatol  Balbach,  John  M.   Davis,
     Richard  G.   Davis,  Thomas
     Davis,   Robert  Eisenmenger,
     Edward  Ettin,  George  Henry,
     Peter  M.   Keir,   James  L.
     Kichline,  Edwin  M.   Truman,
     Joseph  S.   Zeisel                                                              Associate  Economists
                        By  unanimous  vote,   the  Federal   Reserve  Bank  of   New
 York  was   selected  to   execute  transactions   for  the  System  Open
Market   Account  until   the  adjournment   of   the  first  meeting  of
 the  Federal  Open  Market   Committee   after  February  28,  1981.
                        By  unanimous  vote,   Peter  D.   Sternlight   and  Scott  E,
Pardee  were  selected  to   serve  at   the  pleasure  of   the  Committee
 in   the  capacities  of   Manager  for  Domestic  Operations,  System
 Open  Market   Account,   and  Manager   for  Foreign  Operations,   System
Open  Market   Account,   respectively,  on  the  understanding  that
 their   selection  was  subject   to  their   being  satisfactory   to  the
Federal   Reserve  Bank  of  New  York.
                          Secretary's  note:                          Advice  was  subsequently
                          received  that   the   selections   indicated   above
                         were   satisfactory   to  the  Federal  Reserve
                         Bank   of   New  York.
                          By  unanimous   vote,  the  minutes   of   actions  taken  at
  the  meeting  of   the  Federal  Open  Market   Committee  held  on
  February  4-5,  1980,  were  approved.
3/18/80                                                                 -   5  -
                        By  unanimous   vote,  System  open  market   transactions
 in  foreign  currencies   during  the  period  February  4   through
 March  17,   1980,  were  ratified.
                        Pursuant   to  paragraph  3  of   the  Authorization  for
 Foreign  Currency  Operations,   the  Committee,  by  unanimous  vote,
 expressly  authorized  the   Federal   Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  for
 System  Open  Market  Account,   to  enter  into  contracts  to  purchase
 foreign  exchange   at  specified  rates   that   reflected  market   rates
 of   late  February   and  early  March   and  to  transfer  the   foreign
 exchange  so   acquired  directly  to   the  Exchange  Stabilization
 Fund  at  those  same  rates.
                        By  unanimous  vote,  System  open  market   transactions   in
 Government  securities,   agency  obligations,   and  bankers  acceptances
 during   the  period  February  4   through  March   17,   1980,  were
 ratified.
                        With  Mr.   Wallich  dissenting,   the  Federal   Reserve
 Bank  of  New  York  was  authorized  and  directed,  until  otherwise
 directed  by  the  Committee,  to  execute   transactions   in  the
 System  Account   in   accordance  with  the   following  domestic
policy   directive:
                                    The  information  reviewed  at   this  meeting
                        suggests  that   real  output   of   goods  and  services
                        continued  to   grow  in  the   first  quarter  of  1980
                        and  that  the  rise  in  prices   accelerated.     In
                        February  retail  sales  declined  moderately,  but
                        the  decrease  followed  an  exceptionally   large
                         increase  in  January.     Industrial  production
                         expanded  somewhat   in  both  months,   after  a
                        period  of   little  change,   and  nonfarm  payroll
                         employment   continued  to  rise.     The  unemployment
3/18/80                                                                -   6  -
                        rate   edged  down   in  February  to  6.0  percent.
                        Private  housing  starts  declined  further   in
                        January   and  were  more   than  one-fifth  below
                        the  rate   in  the  third   quarter  of   last  year.
                        The  rise   in  producer  prices  of   finished
                        goods   and   in   consumer  prices  was  more
                        rapid   in  the   first  month  or  two  of   1980
                        than   in  1979,   despite  some   easing   in  prices
                        of   foods.     Over  the   first  two  months  of   1980
                        the  rise   in  the   index  of   average  hourly
                        earnings  was   somewhat  below  the   rapid  pace
                        recorded   in  1979.
                                    The   dollar  has  been   in  strong  demand  in
                        exchange  markets  since  mid-February,   largely
                        in   response  to   rising  U.   S.  interest   rates;
                        by   early  March  the  trade-weighted  value  of
                        the  dollar  against  major   foreign  currencies
                        had  returned  to  about   the  level   reached   at
                        the  end  of   last   October,  and   since   then,  it
                        has   risen  further.     Intervention  by  foreign
                        monetary  authorities  to   support   their
                        currencies  was  very  heavy  in  February   and   the
                        first   half  of  March.     The  U.  S.   foreign   trade
                        deficit  rose   sharply   in  January,although  the
                        volume   and  value  of   imports  of  petroleum  were
                        somewhat   reduced.
                                    Growth  of  M-1A  and  M-1B,  which  had   re
                        mained  moderate   in   January,   accelerated
                        sharply   in  February,   and  growth  of   M-2  also
                        quickened.     In  recent  weeks,  however,  monetary
                        growth  has  subsided.     Expansion  of   commercial
                        bank  credit  picked  up   in   the  first   two  months
                        of   this  year  from  the  reduced  pace   in  the
                        fourth  quarter  of   1979.     Market   interest
                        rates  have  risen   substantially  in   recent
                        weeks.     An   increase  in  Federal  Reserve  discount
                        rates   from  12  to   13  percent  was  announced
                        early  on   February  15,   effectively  immediately.
                                   On  March   14   the  President   announced  a
                       broad  program  of  fiscal,   energy,   credit,   and
                        other  measures  designed  to  moderate  and
                        reduce  inflationary   forces   in   a  manner  that
                        can  also   lay  the  groundwork   for   a  return  to
                        stable  economic  growth.     Consistent  with  that
                        objective   and  with   the  continuing  intent   of
                        the  Federal   Reserve   System  to   restrain  growth
                        in  money   and  credit  during   1980,  the  Board
3/18/80                                                                  -   7  -
                        of  Governors  took  the  following   actions   to  rein
                        force  the   effectiveness  of   the  measures   announced
                        in  October   1979:                       1.     A   special   credit  restraint
                        program;     2.     A   special  deposit   requirement   for
                        all   lenders   on   increases   in  certain  types  of
                        consumer   credit;                        3.     An   increase   in   the  mar
                        ginal   reserve   requirement   on  managed  liabilities
                        of   large  member  banks;     4.     A   special  deposit
                        requirement   on   increases   in  managed   liabilities
                        of   large   nonmember  banks;                                  5.     A   special  deposit
                        requirement   on   increases   in  total  assets  of
                       money  market  mutual   funds;     6.     A   surcharge  of
                        3  percentage   points  on   frequent  borrowings  of
                        large  member  banks  from  Federal  Reserve  Banks.
                                   Taking   account   of  past   and  prospective
                        economic  developments,   the  Federal   Open   Market
                        Committee  seeks   to  foster  monetary  and  financial
                        conditions  that   will  resist   inflationary
                       pressures  while   encouraging  moderate  economic
                        expansion  and  contributing  to   a  sustainable
                       pattern   of   international   transactions.     At
                        its  meeting  on   February  4-5,   1980,   the  Com
                       mittee   agreed  that  these  objectives  would  be
                        furthered  by   growth  of   M-1A,  M-1B,  M-2,  and
                       M-3   from  the   fourth  quarter  of   1979   to  the
                        fourth  quarter   of   1980  within  ranges   of  3-1/2
                        to  6,   4   to  6-1/2,   6   to  9,   and  6-1/2   to   9-1/2
                       percent   respectively.     The  associated  range
                        for  bank  credit  was   6  to   9  percent.
                                    In   the  short   run,   the  Committee  seeks
                        expansion  of  reserve   aggregates  consistent
                       with  growth  over  the   first   half  of   1980  at  an
                        annual  rate  of  4-1/2   percent   for  M-1A   and  5
                       percent   for  M-1B,  or   somewhat   less,  provided
                        that   in  the   period  before   the  next  regular
                       meeting   the  weekly   average  federal   funds  rate
                       remains   within   a  range  of   13   to   20  percent.
                       The   Committee  believes   that,   consistent  with
                       this   short-run  policy,  M-2   should  grow  at   an
                        annual  rate  of   about   7-3/4  percent  over  the
                        first  half  and  expansion  of  bank   credit   should
                       slow   in   the  months   ahead  to  a   pace  compatible
                       with  growth  over  the  year  as   a  whole  within
                       the  range   agreed  upon.
                                   If   it   appears   during   the  period  before   the
                       next  meeting  that   the  constraint  on   the  federal
                       funds   rate  is   inconsistent  with  the  objective   for
                       the  expansion   of   reserves,  the   Manager  for  Domestic
                       Operations   is  promptly  to   notify   the  Chairman  who
                       will   then   decide  whether  the   situation  calls  for
                       supplementary   instructions   from  the  Committee.
the   Manager  for  Domestic
                       Operations   is  promptly  to   notify   the  Chairman  who
                       will   then   decide  whether  the   situation  calls  for
                       supplementary   instructions   from  the  Committee.

