                                                                                                  Committee
                              Meeting  of  the  Federal  Open Market
                                                           March  31,  1981
                                                       Minutes  of  Actions
                    A  meeting of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  was  held  in  the
 offices  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  in  Washington,
D.  C.,   on  Tuesday, March  31,  1981  at  9:00  a.m.
          PRESENT:    Mr.  Volcker,  Chairman
                              Mr.  Solomon, Vice  Chairman
                              Mr.  Boehne
                              Mr.  Boykin
                              Mr.  Corrigan
                              Mr. Partee
                              Mr.  Rice
                              Mr.  Schultz
                              Mrs.  Teeters
                              Mr. Wallich
                              Messrs.  Balles,  Black,  Ford,  and  Winn, Alternate  Members  of
                                        the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee
                              Messrs.  Guffey,  Morris,  and  Roos,  Presidents  of  the  Federal
                                        Reserve  Banks  of Kansas  City,  Boston,  and  St.  Louis,
                                        respectively
                                        Mr.  Axilrod,  Staff  Director
                                        Mr.  Altmann,  Secretary
                                        Mr.  Bernard,  Assistant  Secretary
                                        Mrs.   Steele,  Deputy  Assistant  Secretary
                                        Mr.  Petersen, General  Counsel
                                        Mr.  Oltman,  Deputy  General  Counsel
                                        Mr.  Mannion,  Assistant  General  Counsel
                                        Mr.  Kichline,  Economist
                                        Messrs.  Burns,  Danforth,  R.  Davis,  Ettin,  Keir,
                                                 Mullineaux,  Prell,  Scheld,  Truman,  and  Zeisel,
                                                  Associate  Economists
                                        Mr.  Sternlight,  Manager  for  Domestic  Operations,  System
                                                  Open Market  Account
                                        Mr.  Coyne,  Assistant  to  the  Board  of Governors
                                        Mr.  Siegman,  Associate  Director,  Division  of  International
                                                  Finance,  Board  of  Governors
                                        Mr.  Smith  1/,  Assistant  Director,  Division  of  International
                                                  Finance,  Board  of  Governors
 1/   Entered  the meeting  prior  to  the  action  to  amend  the  Authorization  for
        Foreign  Currency  Operations  and  left  following  the  action  to  reaffirm
        the  agreement  to  "warehouse"  foreign  currencies.
                                                                                   -
 3/31/81                                                                   -   2
                                        Mr.  Doyle,  First  Vice  President,  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                                                  Chicago
                                        Messrs.  Balbach,  J. Davis,  T.  Davis,  Eisenmenger,  Keran,
                                                  Koch, and  Parthemos,  Senior  Vice  Presidents,
                                                  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  St.  Louis,  Cleveland,
                                                  Kansas  City,  Boston,  San  Francisco,  Atlanta,  and
                                                  Richmond,  respectively
                                        Ms.  Greene  and Mr.  Syron,  Vice  Presidents,  Federal
                                                  Reserve  Banks  of  New  York  and  Boston,  respectively
                                        Ms.  Lovett,   Securities  Trading  Officer,  Federal  Reserve
                                                  Bank  of  New  York
                    In  the  agenda  for  this  meeting,  it  was  reported  that  advices  of  the
 election  of  the  following  members  and  alternate  members  of  the  Federal  Open
Market  Committee  for  the  year  commencing  March  1,  1981,  had  been  received  by
 the  Secretary  and  the  named  individuals  had  executed  their  oaths  of  office.
                    The  elected  members  and  alternate  membes  were  as  follows:
 Edward  G. Boehne,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Philadelphia,  with
           Robert  P.  Black,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Richmond,  as
          alternate;
 Anthony  M.  Solomon,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York, with
          Thomas  M.  Timlen,  First  Vice  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
          New  York,  as  alternate;
 Robert  P. Mayo,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Chicago,  with Willis
          J. Winn,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Cleveland,  as  alternate;
 Robert  H.  Boykin,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Dallas,  with
          William  F.  Ford,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Atlanta,  as
          alternate;
E.  Gerald  Corrigan,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Minneapolis,
          with  John  J.  Balles,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank of  San
          Francisco,  as alternate.
                    By  unanimous  vote,  the  following  officers  of  the  Federal  Open  Market
 Committee  were  elected  to  serve  until  the  election  of  their  successors  at  the
first  meeting  of  the  Committee  after  February  28,  1982,  with  the  understanding
 that  in  the  event  of  the  discontinuance  of  their  official  connection  with  the
3/31/81                                                                     -   3 -
Board  of  Governors  or  with  a  Federal  Reserve  Bank,  as  the  case  might  be,  they
would  cease  to  have  any  official  connection  with  the  Federal  Open  Market
Committee:
Paul  A.  Vocker                                                                          Chairman
Anthony  M.  Solomon                                                                      Vice  Chairman
 Stephen  H.  Axilrod                                                                     Staff  Director
Murray  A.  Altmann                                                                       Secretary
Normand  R.  V.  Bernard                                                                  Assistant  Secretary
Nancy  M.  Steele                                                                         Deputy  Assistant  Secretary
Neal  L.  Petersen                                                                        General  Counsel
James  H.  Oltman                                                                         Deputy  General  Counsel
Robert  E.  Mannion                                                                       Assistant  General  Counsel
James  L.  Kichline                                                                       Economist
Alan  R.  Holmes                                                                          Adviser  for  Market  Operations
Joseph  E.  Burns,  John  P.  Danforth,
    Richard  G.  Davis,  Edward  E.  Ettin,
    George  B.  Henry,  Peter  M.  Keir,
    Donald  J.  Mullineaux, Michael  J.
    Prell,  Karl  A.  Scheld,  Edwin M.
    Truman,  Joseph  S.  Zeisel                                                           Associate  Economists
                    Secretary's  note:    On  March  4,  1981,  certain  continuing
                    authorizations  of  the  Committee  listed  below, had  been
                    distributed  by  the  Secretary  with  the  advice  that,  in
                    accordance  with  procedures  approved  by  the  Committee,
                    they  were  being  called  to  the  Committee's  attention
                    before  the  March  organization meeting  to  give  members
                    an  opportunity  to  raise  any  questions  they  had  concerning
                    them.    Members  were  asked  to  so  indicate  if  they wished
                    to  have  any  of  the  authorizations  in  question  placed  on
                    the  agenda  for  consideration  at  this  meeting,  and  no
                    such  requests  were  received.
                    The  authorizations  in  question  were  as  follows:
                    1.    Procedures  for  allocation  of  securities  in  the
                            System  Open Market  Account.
                    2.   List  of  Treasury  Department  officials  to  whom  weekly
                            reports  on  open market  operations  may  be  sent.
                    3.    Authority  for  the  Chairman  to  appoint  a  Federal
                            Reserve  Bank as  agent  to  operate  the  System  Account
                            in  case  the  New  York  Bank  is  unable  to  function.
3/31/81                                                                    -   4  -
                    4.    Resolutions  providing  for  continued  operations  of  the
                            Committee  and  for  certain actions  by  the  Reserve  Banks
                            during  an emergency.
                    5.    Resolution  relating  to  examinations  of  the  System  Open
                            Market  Account.
                    6.    Guidelines  for  the  conduct  of  System  operations  in
                            Federal  agency  issues.
                    7.    Regulation  relating  to  Open Market  Operations  of  Federal
                            Reserve  Banks.
                    8.    Rules  of  Organization,  Rules  Regarding  Availability  of
                            Information,  and  Rules  of  Procedure.
                    By  unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York was  selected
 to  execute  transactions  for  the  System  Open  Market  Account  until  the  adjourn
ment  of  the  first  meeting  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  after
 February  28,  1982.
                    By  unanimous  vote,  Peter  D.  Sternlight  and  Scott  E.  Pardee  were
 selected  to  serve  at  the  pleasure  of  the  Committee  in  the  capacities  of
Manager  for  Domestic  Operations,  System  Opem Market  Account,  and  Manager  for
 F reign  Operations,  System  Open  Market  Account,  respectively, on  the  under
 standing  that  their  selection  was  subject  to  their  being  satisfactory  to  the
 Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York.
                     Secretary's  note:    Advice  was  subsequently  received  that
                    the  selections  indicated  above were  satisfactory  to  the
                    Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York.
                    By  unanimous  vote,  the  minutes  of  actions  taken  at  the  meetings
of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  held  on  February  2-3,  1981,  and
February  24,  1981,  were  approved.
                    By  unanimous  vote,  System  open market  transactions  in  foreign
currencies  during  the  period  February  2  through March  30,  1981,  were  ratified.
3/31/81                                                                     -  5 -
                     By  unanimous  vote  the  Authorization  for  Foreign  Currency  Operations
 was  amended  to  read  as  follows:
                             AUTHORIZATION  FOR  FOREIGN  CURRENCY  OPERATIONS
     1.   The  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs  the  Federal
 Reserve  Bank  of  New York,  for  System  Open  Market  Account,  to  the  extent
 necessary  to  carry  out  the  Committee's  foreign  currency  directive  and
 express  authorizations  by  the  Committee  pursuant  thereto,  and  in  conformity
 with  such  procedural  instructions  as  the  Committee  may  issue  from  time  to
 time:
     A.   To  purchase  and  sell  the  following  foreign  currencies  in the  form
 of  cable  transfers  through  spot  or  foward  transactions  on  the  open market  at
 home  and  abroad,  including  transactions  with  the  U.  S. Treasury,  with  the
 U.  S. Exchange  Stabilization  Fund  established  by  Section  10 of  the  Gold
 Reserve  Act  of  1934,  with  foreign  monetary  authorities,  with  the  Bank
 for  International  Settlements,  and  with  other  international  financial
 institutions.
                                                      Austrian  schillings
                                                      Belgian  francs
                                                      Canadian  dollars
                                                      Danish  kroner
                                                      Pounds  sterling
                                                      French  francs
                                                      German  marks
                                                      Italian  lire
                                                      Japanese  yen
                                                      Mexican  pesos
                                                      Netherlands  guilders
                                                      Norwegian  kroner
                                                      Swedish  kronor
                                                      Swiss  francs
     B.    To  hold  balances  of,  and  to  have  outstanding  forward  contracts  to
 receive  or  to  deliver,  the  foreign  currencies  listed  in  paragraph  A above.
     C.    To  draw foreign  currencies  and  to  permit  foreign  banks  to  draw  dollars
 under  the  reciprocal  currency  arrangements  listed  in  paragraph  2  below,
 provided  that  drawings  by  either  party  to  any  such arrangement  shall  be
 fully  liquidated  within  12 months  after any  amount  outstanding  at  that  time
was  first  drawn,  unless  the  Committee,  because  of  exceptional  circumstances,
 specifically  authorizes  a  delay.
     D.    To  maintain an  overall  open  position  in all  foreign  currencies  not
 exceeding  $8.0  billion.    For  this  purpose,  the  overall  open  position  in  all
3/31/81                                                                    -   6  -
 foreign  currencies  is  defined  as  the  sum  (disregarding  signs)  of  net  posi
 tions  in  individual  currencies.    The  net  position  in  a single  foreign
currency  is  defined  as  holdings  of  balances  in  that  currency,  plus  out
 standing  contracts  for  future  receipt, minus  outstanding  contracts  for
 future  delivery  of  that  currency,  i.e.,  as  the  sum  of  these  elements
with  due  regard  to  sign.
     2.   The  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  directs  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
 New York  to maintain  reciprocal  currency  arrangements  ("swap"  arrangements)
 for  the  System  Open  Market  Account  for  periods  up  to  a maximum  of  12  months
with  the  following  foreign  banks,  which  are  among  those  designated  by  the
 Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  under  Section  214.5  of
 Regulation  N, Relations  with  Foreign  Banks  and  Bankers,  and  with  the  approval
 of  the  Committee  to  renew  such  arrangements  on maturity:
                                                                                               Amount  of  arrangement
                                                                                                  (millions of  dollars
                  Foreign  bank                                                                            equivalent)
          Austrian  National  Bank                                                                               250
           National  Bank  of  Belgium                                                                       1,000
           Bank  of  Canada                                                                                  2,000
           National  Bank  of  Denmark                                                                           250
           Bank  of  England                                                                                 3,000
           Bank of  France                                                                                   2,000
           German  Federal  Bank                                                                             6,000
           Bank of  Italy                                                                                    3,000
           Bank  of  Japan                                                                                   5,000
           Bank of  Mexico                                                                                       700
           Netherlands  Bank                                                                                     500
           Bank  of  Norway                                                                                      250
           Bank  of  Sweden                                                                                      500  1/
           Swiss  National  Bank                                                                             4,000
           Bank  for  International  Settlements:
              Dollars  against  Swiss  francs                                                                    600
              Dollars  against  authorized  European
                  currencies  other  than  Swiss  francs                                                     1,250
 Any  changes  in  the  terms  of  existing  swap  arrangements,  and  the  proposed
 terms  of  any  new arrangements  that  may  be  authorized,  shall  be  referred
 for  review  and  approval  to  the  Committee.
1/    Pursuant  to  an  action  taken  by  the  Committee  on  May  20,  1980,  the  amount
        of  the  reciprocal  currency  arrangement  with  the  Bank  of  Sweden  was
        raised  to  $500  million,  effective  May  23,  1980,  for  a period  of  one
        year,  after  which  it  will  revert  to  its  former  level  of  $300  million.
3/31/81
                                                                            -7-
     3.    All  transactions  in  foreign  currencies  undertaken  under  paragraph
 1(A)  above  shall,  unless  otherwise  expressly  authorized  by  the  Committee,
 be  at  prevailing  market  rates.    For  the  purpose  of  providing  an  investment
 return  on  System  holdings  of  foreign  currencies,  or  for  the  purpose  of
 adjusting  interest  rates  paid  or  received  in  connection  with  swap  drawings,
 transactions  with  foreign  central  banks  may  be  undertaken  at  non-market
 exchange  rates.
     4.    It  shall  be  the  normal  practice  to  arrange  with  foreign  central  banks
 for  the  coordination of  foreign  currency  transactions.    In making  operating
 arrangements  with  foreign  central  banks  on  System  holdings  of  foreign
 currencies,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York  shall  not  commit  itself
 to  maintain  any  specific  balance,  unless  authorized  by  the  Federal  Open
 Market  Committee.    Any  agreements  or  understandings  concerning  the
 administration  of  the  accounts  maintained  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank of
 New  York with  the  foreign  banks  designated  by  the  Board  of  Governors  under
 Section  214.5  of  Regulation  N  shall  be  referred  for  review  and  approval  to
 the  Committee.
     5.    Foreign  currency  holdings  shall  be  invested  insofar  as  practicable,
 considering  needs  for  minimum  working  balances.    Such  investments  shall  be
 in  liquid  form,  and  generally  have  no  more  than  12  months  remaining  to
maturity.    When  appropriate  in  connection  with  arrangements  to  provide
 investment  facilities  for  foreign  currency  holdings,  U.  S.  Government
 securities  may  be  purchased  from  foreign  central  banks  under  agreements
 for  repurchase  of  such  securities  within  30  calendar  days.
     6.    All  operations  undertaken  pursuant  to  the  preceding  paragraphs  shall
 be  reported  promptly  to  the  Foreign  Currency  Subcommittee  and  the  Committee.
 The  Foreign  Currency  Subcommittee  consists  of  the  Chairman  and Vice  Chairman
 of  the  Committee,  the    Vice  Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Governors,  and  such  other
member  of  the  Board  as  the  Chairman may  designate  (or  in  the  absence  of
members  of  the  Board  serving  on  the  Subcommittee,  other  Board  Members
 designated  by  the  Chairman  as  alternates,  and  in  the  absence  of  the  Vice
 Chairman  of  the  Committee,  his  alternate).    Meetings  of  the  Subcommittee
 shall  be  called  at  the  request  of  any  member,  or  at  the  request  of  the
 Manager  for  Foreign  Operations  for  the  purposes  of  reviewing  recent  or
 contemplated  operations  and  of  consulting  with  the  Manager  on  other
matters  relating  to  his  responsibilities.    At  the  request  of  any member
 of  the  Subcommittee,  questions  arising  from  such  reviews  and  consultations
 shall  be  referred  for  determination  to  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee.
     7.    The  Chairman  is  authorized:
          A.    With  the  approval  of  the  Committee,  to  enter  into  any  needed
agreement  or  understanding  with  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury about  the
division  of  responsibility  for  foreign  currency  operations  between  the
 System  and  the  Treasury;
          B.    To  keep  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  fully  advised  concerning
 System  foreign  currency  operations,  and  to  consult  with  the  Secretary  on
policy  matters  relating  to  foreign  currency  operations;
etween  the
 System  and  the  Treasury;
          B.    To  keep  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  fully  advised  concerning
 System  foreign  currency  operations,  and  to  consult  with  the  Secretary  on
policy  matters  relating  to  foreign  currency  operations;

