                              Meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee
                                                       March  29-30,  1982
                                                       Minutes  of Actions
                     A  meeting  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  was  held  in  the
 offices  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  in
 Washington,  D.  C.,  beginning  on  Monday,  March  29,  1982,  at  4:00  p.m.  and
 continuing  on  Tuesday,  March  30,  1982,  at  9:45  a.m.
           PRESENT:    Mr. Volcker,  Chairman
                               Mr.  Solomon,  1/  Vice  Chairman
                               Mr.  Balles
                               Mr.  Black
                               Mr.  Ford
                               Mr.  Gramley
                               Mr.  Partee
                               Mr.  Rice
                               Mrs.  Teeters
                               Mr.  Wallich
                               Mr.  Winn
                               Messrs.  Guffey,  Keehn,  Morris,  and  Roos,  Alternate  Members  of
                                         the  Federal  Open Market  Committee
                               Mr.  Martin,  2/  Vice  Chairman designate,  Board  of  Governors
                               Messrs.  Boehne,  Boykin,  and  Corrigan,  Presidents  of  the  Federal
                                         Reserve  Banks  of  Philadelphia,  Dallas,  and  Minneapolis,
                                         respectively
                                        Mr.  Axilrod,  Staff  Director
                                        Mr.  Altmann,  Secretary
                                        Mr.  Bernard,  Assistant  Secretary
                                        Mrs.  Steele,  Deputy  Assistant  Secretary
                                        Mr.  Bradfield,  General  Counsel
                                        Mr.  Mannion,  3/  Assistant  General  Counsel
                                        Mr.  Kichline,  Economist
1/    Entered  the meeting  following  the  approval  of  the minutes  of  actions  taken
        at  the meeting  on  February  1-2,  1982.
2/   Entered  the  meeting  on  Tuesday  prior  to  the  action  to  adopt  the  domestic
        policy  directive.
3/   Attended  Tuesday  session  only.
 3/29-30/82                                                              -  2  -
                                         Messrs.  J. Davis,  R. Davis,  Ettin,  Keran, Koch,
                                                    Parthemos,  Prell,  Siegman,  Truman,  and  Ziesel,
                                                   Associate  Economists
                                         Mr.  Sternlight,  Manager  for  Domestic  Operations,
                                                    System  Open  Market  Account
                                         Mr.  Cross,  Manager  for  Foreign  Operations,  System
                                                    Open Market  Account
                                         Mr.  Coyne, Assistant  to  the  Board  of  Governors
                                         Mr.  Gemmill,  Associate  Director,  Division  of
                                                    International  Finance,  Board  of  Governors
                                         Mr.  Kohn,  Senior  Deputy Associate  Director,  Division  of
                                                   Research  and  Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                         Mr.  Lindsey,  Assistant  Director,  Division of  Research
                                                   and  Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                         Mrs.  Deck,  Staff  Assistant,  Open  Market  Secretariat,
                                                   Board  of  Governors
                                         Mr.  MacDonald,  First Vice  President,  Federal  Reserve  Bank
                                                   of  Cleveland
                                         Messrs.  Balbach,  Burns,  T. Davis,  Eisenmenger,  Mullineaux,
                                                    Scheld,  and  Stern,  Senior Vice  Presidents,  Federal
                                                   Reserve  Banks  of  St.  Louis,  Dallas,  Kansas  City,
                                                   Boston,  Philadelphia,  Chicago,  and  Minneapolis,
                                                   respectively
                                         Messrs.  Sandberg,  and  Soss,  Vice  Presidents,  Federal
                                                   Reserve  Bank  of  New  York
                     In  the  agenda  for  this  meeting,  it  was  reported  that  advices  of  the
 election  of  the  following  members  and  alternate  members  of  the  Federal  Open
 Market  Committee  for  the  year  commencing  March  1, 1982,  had  been  received  by
 the  Secretary  and  the  named  individuals  had  executed  their  oaths  of  office.
                     The  elected  members  and  alternate  members  were  as  follows:
 Robert  P. Black,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Richmond,  with
           Frank E.  Morris,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Boston,  as
           alternate;
Anthony  M.  Solomon, President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  with
           Thomas  M. Timlen,  First Vice  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
           New  York,  as  alternate;
 3/29-30/82                                                             -   3 -
 Willis  J.  Winn,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Cleveland,  with
           Silas  Keehn,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Chicago,  as
           alternate;
 William  F.  Ford,  President  of  the Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Atlanta,  with
           Lawrence  K.  Roos,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  St.  Louis,
           as  alternate;
 John J.  Balles,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  San  Francisco,  with
           Roger  Guffey, President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Kansas  City,
           as  alternate.
                     By  unanimous  vote,  the  following  officers  of  the  Federal  Open Market
 Committee  were  elected  to  serve until  the  election  of  their  successors  at  the
 first meeting  of  the  Committee  after February  28,  1983,  with  the  understanding
 that  in  the  event  of  the  discontinuance  of  their  official  connection  with  the
 Board  of  Governors  or  with  a Federal  Reserve  Bank,  as  the  case might  be,  they
 would  cease  to  have  any  official  connection with  the  Federal  Open  Market
 Committee:
 Paul  A.  Volcker                                                                                Chairman
 Anthony  M.  Solomon                                                                             Vice  Chairman
 Stephen  H.  Axilrod                                                                             Staff  Director
Murray  Altmann                                                                                   Secretary
 Normand  R.  V.  Bernard                                                                         Assistant  Secretary
 Nancy M.  Steele                                                                                 Deputy  Assistant  Secretary
 Michael  Bradfield                                                                               General  Counsel
 James  H.  Oltman                                                                                Deputy  General  Counsel
 Robert  E.  Mannion                                                                              Assistant  General  Counsel
James  L. Kichline                                                                                Economist
John  M.  Davis,  Richard  G.  Davis,
    Edward  C.  Ettin, Michael  W.  Keran,
    Donald  L.  Koch,  James  Parthemos,
    Michael  J.  Prell,  Charles  J.  Siegman,
    Edwin M.  Truman,  Joseph  S.  Zeisel                                                         Associate Economists
3/29-30/82                                                              -  4
                     By  unanimous vote,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York  was  selected
 to  execute  transactions  for  the  System  Open  Market  Account  until  the  adjourn
ment  of  the  first  meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  after
February  28,  1983.
                     By  unanimous  vote,  Peter  D.  Sternlight  and  Sam Y.  Cross  were  selected
to  serve  at  the  pleasure  of  the  Committee  in  the  capacities  of  Manager  for
Domestic  Operations,  System  Open  Market  Account,  and  Manager  for  Foreign
Operations,  System  Open Market  Account,  respectively,  on  the understanding
 that  their  selection  was  subject  to  their  being  satisfactory  to  the  Federal
Reserve  Bank  of  New  York.
                     Secretary's  note:    Advice  was  subsequently  received  that
                     the  selections  indicated  above were  satisfactory  to  the
                    Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York.
                    Consideration  was  then  given  to  the  continuing  authorizations  of  the
Committee,  in  accordance  with  the  customary  practice  of  reviewing  such matters
at  the  first  meeting  in March  of  every  year.
                     Secretary's  note:    On  February  17,  1982,  certain  continuing
                    authorizations  of  the  Committee  listed  below,  had  been  dis
                    tributed  by  the  Secretary with  the  advice  that,  in  accordance
                    with  procedures  approved  by  the  Committee,  they  were  being
                    called  to  the  Committee's  attention  before  the  March  organi
                    zation meeting  to  give  members  an  opportunity  to  raise  any
                    questions  they  had  concerning  them.    Members  were  asked  to
                     so  indicate  if  they  wished  to  have  any  of  the  authorizations
                    in  question  placed  on  the  agenda  for  consideration  at  this
                    meeting,  and  no  such  requests were  received.
                    The  authorizations  in  question  were  as  follows:
                    1.   Procedures  for  allocation  of  securities  in  the
                            System  Open  Market  Account.
                    2.   List  of  Treasury  Department  officials  to  whom  weekly
                            reports  on  open  market  operations may  be  sent.
 3/29-30/82                                                              -  5  -
                      3.   Authority  for  the  Chairman  to  appoint  a  Federal
                              Reserve  Bank  as  agent  to  operate  the  System Account
                              in  case  the  New York  Bank  is  unable  to  function.
                      4.    Resolutions  providing  for  continued  operations  of  the
                              Committee  and  for  certain  actions  by  the  Reserve  Banks
                             during  an  emergency.
                     5.    Resolution  relating  to  examinations  of  the  System  Open
                             Market  Account.
                      6.    Guidelines  for  the  conduct  of  System  operations  in
                             Federal  agency  issues.
                      7.    Regulation  relating  to  Open  Market  Operations  of  Federal
                             Reserve  Banks.
                     8.    Rules  of  Organization,  Rules  Regarding  Availability  of
                             Information,  and  Rules  of  Procedure.
                     It  was  agreed  that  the  authorization  for  the  lending  of  Government
 securities  from  the  System  Open  Market  Account,  contained  in  paragraph  3  of
 the Authorization  for  Domestic  Open  Market  Operations,  should  be  retained.
                     By  unanimous  vote,  the Authorization  for  Domestic  Open  Market
 Operations  shown  below was  reaffirmed:
                             AUTHORIZATION  FOR DOMESTIC  OPEN MARKET OPERATIONS
     1.    The  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs  the  Federal
 Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  to  the extent  necessary  to  carry  out  the  most
 recent  domestic  policy  directive  adopted  at  a meeting  of  the  Committee:
           (a)   To  buy  or  sell  U.  S.  Government  securities,  including  securities
 of  the  Federal  Financing  Bank,  and  securities  that  are  direct  obligations
 of,  or  fully  guaranteed  as  to  principal  and  interest  by,  any  agency  of
 the  United  States  in  the  open  market,  from  or  to  securities  dealers  and
 foreign  and  international  accounts  maintained  at  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank
of  New York,  on  a  cash,  regular,  or  deferred  delivery basis,  for  the  System
Open Market  Account  at market  prices,  and,  for  such  Account,  to  exchange
maturing  U.  S.  Government  and  Federal  agency  securities  with  the  Treasury  or
 the  individual  agencies  or  to  allow them  to  mature without  replacement;
provided  that  the  aggregate  amount  of  U.  S.  Government  and  Federal  agency
 securities  held  in  such  Account  (including forward  commitments)  at  the
close  of  business  on  the  day  of  a meeting  of  the  Committee  at  which  action
is  taken  with  respect  to  a  domestic  policy  directive  shall  not  be
 3/29-30/82                                                               -   6  -
  increased  or  decreased  by  more  than  $3.0  billion  during  the  period  com
 mencing  with  the  opening  of  business  on  the  day  following  such meeting  and
 ending  with  the  close  of  business  on  the  day  of  the  next  such meeting;
            (b)   When  appropriate,  to  buy  or  sell  in  the  open  market,  from  or
 to  acceptance  dealers  and  foreign  accounts  maintained  at  the Federal
 Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  on  a  cash,  regular,  or  deferred  delivery  basis,
 for  the  account  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York  at  market  discount
 rates,  prime  bankers  acceptances  with maturities  of  up  to  nine  months  at
 the  time  of  acceptance  that  (1)  arise  out  of  the  current  shipment  of
 goods  between  countries  or  within  the  United  States,  or  (2) arise  out
 of  the  storage  within  the  United  States  of  goods  under  contract  of  sale  or
 expected  to move  into  the  channels  of  trade within  a  reasonable  time  and
 that  are  secured  throughout  their  life  by  a warehouse  receipt  or  similar
 document  conveying  title  to  the underlying  goods;   provided  that  the
 aggregate  amount  of  bankers  acceptances  held  at  any  one  time  shall  not
 exceed  $100  million;
            (c)    To  buy  U.  S.  Government  securities,  obligations  that  are  direct
 obligations  of,  or  fully  guaranteed  as  to  principal  and  interest  by,  any
 agency of  the  United  States,  and  prime  bankers  acceptances  of  the  types
 authorized  for  purchase  under  1(b)  above,  from dealers  for  the  account  of
 the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York  under agreements  for  repurchase  of
 such  securities,  obligations,  or  acceptances  in  15  calendar  days  or  less,
 at  rates  that,  unless  otherwise  expressly  authorized  by  the  Committee,
 shall  be  determined  by  competitive  bidding,  after  applying  reasonable
 limitations  on  the  volume  of  agreements  with  individual  dealers;  provided
 that  in  the  event  Government  securities  or  agency  issues  covered  by  any
 such  agreement  are  not  repurchased  by  the  dealer  pursuant  to  the  agreement
 or  a  renewal  thereof,  they  shall  be  sold  in  the  market  or  transferred  to  the
 System  Open  Market  Account;  and  provided  further  that  in  the  event  bankers
 acceptances  covered  by  any  such  agreement  are  not  repurchased  by  the  seller,
 they  shall  continue  to  be  held  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  or  shall  be  sold
 in  the  open  market.
     2.    The  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs  the  Federal
 Reserve  Bank  of  New  York  (or, under  special  circumstances,  such  as  when  the
 New  York  Reserve  Bank  is  closed,  any  other  Federal  Reserve  Bank)  (a)  to
 lend  to  the  Treasury  such  amounts  of  securities  held  in  the  System  Open
 Market  Account  as  may  be  necessary  from  time  to  time  for  the  temporary
 accommodation  of  the  Treasury,  under  such  conditions  as  the  Committee  may
 specify;   and  (b)  to  purchase  directly  from  the  Treasury  for  renewable
 periods  not  to  exceed  thirty  days,  when  authorized  by  the  Board  of
 Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  pursuant  to  an  affirmative  vote  of
 not  less  than  five  members,  for  its  own  account  (with discretion,  in  cases
where  it  seems  desirable,  to  issue  participations  to  one  or  more  Federal
 3/29-30/82                                                              -  7  -
 Reserve  Banks)  such  amounts  of  special  short-term  certificates  of  indebted
 ness  as  may  be  necessary  from  time  to  time  for  the  temporary  accommodation
 of  the  Treasury,  provided  that  the  rate  charged  on  such  certificates  shall
 be  a  rate  of  1/4  of  1  percent  below  the  discount  rate  of  the  Federal  Reserve
 Bank  of  New  York  at  the  time  of  such  purchases  and  provided  that  the  total
 amount  of  such  certificates  held  at  any  one  time  by  the  Federal  Reserve
 Banks  shall  not  exceed  $2  billion.
     3.    In  order  to  ensure  the  effective  conduct  of  open market  operations,
 the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs  the  Federal
 Reserve  Banks  to  lend  U.  S. Government  securities  held  in  the  System  Open
 Market  Account  to  Government  securities  dealers  and  to  banks  participating
 in  Government  securities  clearing  arrangements  conducted  through  a  Federal
 Reserve  Bank,  under  such  instructions  as  the  Committee  may  specify  from
 time  to  time.
     4.    In  order  to  ensure  the  effective  conduct  of  open market  operations,
 while  assisting  in  the  provision  of  short-term  investments  for  foreign  and
 international  accounts  maintained  at  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,
 the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs  the  Federal  Reserve
 Bank  of  New York  (a) for  System  Open  Market  Account,  to  sell  U.  S.  Govern
 ment  securities  to  such  foreign  and  international  accounts  on  the  bases
 set  forth  in  paragraph  1(a)  under  agreements  providing  for  the  resale  by
 such accounts  of  those  securities  within  15  calendar  days  on  terms  com
 parable  to  those  available  on  such  transactions  in  the  market;  and  (b)
 for  New York  Bank account,  when  appropriate,  to  undertake  with  dealers,
 subject  to  the  conditions  imposed  on  purchases  and  sales  of  securities  in
 paragraph  1(c),  repurchase  agreements  in U.  S.  Government  and  agency
 securities,  and  to  arrange  corresponding  sale  and  repurchase  agreements
 between  its  own  account  and  foreign and  international  accounts maintained
 at  the  Bank.    Transactions  undertaken  with  such  accounts  under  the  pro
 visions  of  this  paragraph  may provide  for  a  service  fee when  appropriate.
                     By  unanimous  vote  the  Authorization  for  Foreign  Currency  Operations
 shown  below was  reaffirmed:
                             AUTHORIZATION  FOR FOREIGN  CURRENCY  OPERATIONS
     1.    The  Federal  Open Market  Committee  authorizes  and directs  the  Federal
 Reserve  Bank  of  New York,  for  System  Open  Market  Account,  to  the  extent
 necessary  to  carry out  the  Committee's  foreign  currency  directive  and
 express  authorizations  by  the  Committee  pursuant  thereto,  and  in  conformity
with  such procedural  instructions  as  the  Committee  may  issue  from  time  to
 time:
ecessary  to  carry out  the  Committee's  foreign  currency  directive  and
 express  authorizations  by  the  Committee  pursuant  thereto,  and  in  conformity
with  such procedural  instructions  as  the  Committee  may  issue  from  time  to
 time:

