                              Meeting  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee
                                                        March  28-29,  1983
                                                      Minutes  of  Actions
                     A meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  was  held  in
 the  offices  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  in
 Washington,  D.  C.,   beginning  on  Monday,  March  28,  1983,  at  3:00  p.m.  and
 continuing  on  Tuesday,  March  29,  1983,  at  9:00  a.m.
           PRESENT:    Mr.  Volcker,  Chairman
                              Mr.  Solomon,  Vice  Chairman
                              Mr.  Gramley
                              Mr.  Guffey
                              Mr.  Keehn
                              Mr.  Martin
                              Mr.  Morris
                              Mr.  Partee
                              Mr.  Rice
                              Mr.  Roberts
                              Mrs.  Teeters
                              Mr.  Wallich
                              Messrs.    Boehne,  Boykin,  Corrigan,  and  Mrs.  Horn,  Alternate
                                        Members  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee
                              Messrs.  Black,  and  Ford,  Presidents  of  the  Federal
                                        Reserve  Banks  of  Richmond,  and  Atlanta,  respectively
                                        Mr.  Axilrod,  Staff  Director  and  Secretary
                                        Mr.  Bernard,  Assistant  Secretary
                                        Mrs.  Steele,  Deputy  Assistant  Secretary
                                        Mr.  Oltman,  Deputy  General  Counsel
                                        Mr.  Truman,  Economist  (International)
                                        Messrs.  Balbach,  R.  Davis,  T. Davis,  Eisenmenger,  Ettin,
                                                  Prell,  Scheld,  Siegman,  1/  and  Zeisel,  Associate
                                                  Economists
                                        Mr.  Sternlight,  Manager  for  Domestic  Operations,
                                                  System  Open  Market  Account
                                        Mr.  Cross,  Manager  for  Foreign  Operations,
                                                  System  Open  Market  Account
1/   Attended  Monday  session  only.
3/28-29/83
                                         Mr.  Coyne,  Assistant  to  the  Board  of  Governors
                                         Mr.  Gemmill,  Senior  Associate  Director,  Division  of
                                                   International  Finance,  Board  of  Governors
                                         Mr.  Kohn,  Associate  Director,  Division  of  Research
                                                   and  Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                        Mr.  Lindsey,  Deputy  Associate  Director,  Division  of  Research
                                                   and  Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                        Mr.  Promisel,  1/  Associate  Director,  Division  of  International
                                                   Finance,  Board  of  Governors
                                        Mrs.  Low,  Open  Market  Secretariat  Assistant,
                                                   Board  of  Governors
                                        Mr.  Sims,  Executive  Vice  President,  Federal  Reserve
                                                   Bank  of  San  Francisco
                                        Messrs.  Burns,  J.  Davis,  Keran,  Koch,  Mullineaux,  and  Stern,
                                                   Senior  Vice  Presidents,  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of
                                                   Dallas,  Cleveland,  San  Francisco,  Atlanta,  Philadelphia,
                                                   and  Minneapolis,  respectively
                                        Messrs.  Broaddus  and  Soss,  Vice  Presidents,  Federal  Reserve  Banks
                                                  of  Richmond  and  New York
                                        Ms.  Joan  Lovett,  Manager,  Securities  Department,  Federal
                                                  Reserve  Bank  of  New York
                     In  the  agenda  for  this  meeting,  it  was  reported  that  advices  of  the
election  of  the  following  members  and  alternate  members  of  the  Federal  Open
Market  Committee  for  the  year  commencing  March  1,  1983,  had  been  received  by
the  Secretary  and  the  named  individuals  had  executed  their  oaths  of  office.
                    The  elected members  and  alternate  members  were  as  follows:
Frank E.  Morris,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Boston,  with
          Edward  G.  Boehne,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
          Philadelphia,  as  alternate;
Anthony M.  Solomon,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  with
          Thomas  M.  Timlen,  First  Vice  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank of
          New  York,  as  alternate;
1/   Attended  Tuesday  session  only.
                                                                           -3-
 3/28-29/83
 Silas  Keehn,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank of  Chicago,  with
           Karen  N.  Horn,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Cleveland,
           as  alternate;
 Theodore  H.  Roberts,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  St.  Louis,  with
           Robert  H.  Boykin,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Dallas,  as
           alternate;
 Roger  Guffey,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Kansas  City,  with
           E.  Gerald  Corrigan,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Minneapolis,
           as  alternate;
                     By unanimous  vote,  the  following  officers  of  the  Federal  Open  Market
 Committee  were  elected  to  serve  until  the  election  of  their  successors  at  the
 first  meeting  of  the  Committee  after  February  29,  1984,  with  the  understanding
 that  in  the  event  of  the  discontinuance  of  their  official  connection  with  the
 Board  of  Governors  or  with  a  Federal  Reserve  Bank,  as  the  case  might  be,  they
would  cease  to  have  any  official  connection  with  the  Federal  Open  Market
 Committee:
           Paul  A.  Volcker                                                                             Chairman
           Anthony  M.  Solomon                                                                          Vice  Chairman
           Stephen  H.  Axilrod                                                                          Staff  Director  and  Secretary
          Normand  R.  V.  Bernard                                                                      Assistant  Secretary
          Nancy  M.  Steele                                                                              Deputy  Assistant  Secretary
          Michael  Bradfield                                                                             General  Counsel
          James  H.  Oltman                                                                              Deputy  General  Counsel
          James  L.  Kichline                                                                            Economist
          Edwin  M.  Truman                                                                              Economist  (International)
          Anatol  Balbach,  Richard  G. Davis,
              Thomas  E.  Davis,  Robert  Eisenmenger,
              Edward  C.  Ettin,  Michael  J.  Prell,
              Charles  J.  Siegman,  Karl  A.  Scheld,
              Joseph  S.  Zeisel                                                                        Associate  Economists
3/28-29/83
                    By  unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York  was  selected
 to  execute  transactions  for  the  System  Open  Market  Account  until  the  adjourn
ment  of  the  first  meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  after
 February  29,  1984.
                    By  unanimous  vote,  Peter  D.  Sternlight  and  Sam Y.  Cross  were  selected
to  serve  at  the  pleasure  of  the  Committee  in  the  capacities  of  Manager  for
Domestic  Operations,  System  Open  Market  Account,  and  Manager  for  Foreign
Operations,  System  Open  Market  Account,  respectively,  on  the  understanding
that  their  selection  was  subject  to  their  being  satisfactory  to  the  Federal
Reserve  Bank  of  New York.
                    Secretary's  note:    Advice  was  subsequently  received  that
                    the  selections  indicated  above  were  satisfactory  to  the
                    Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York.
                    Consideration was  then  given  to  the  continuing  authorizations  of  the
Committee,  in  accordance  with  the  customary  practice  of  reviewing  such  matters
at  the  first  meeting  in  March  of  every  year.
                    Secretary's  note:     On March  11,  1983,  certain  continuing
                    authorizations  of  the  Committee  listed  below had  been
                    distributed  by  the  Assistant  Secretary  with  the  advice
                    that,  in  accordance  with procedures  approved  by  the
                    Committee,  they were  being  called  to  the  Committee's
                    attention  before  the  March  organization  meeting  to  give
                    members  an  opportunity  to  raise  any  questions  they  had
                    concerning  them.    It  was  noted  that  the  Chairman  planned
                    to  place  on  the  agenda  consideration  of  an  amendment  to
                    the  Authorization  for  Domestic  Open  Market  Operations
                    and  conforming  admendments  to  the  Resolution  of  the  FOMC
                    authorizing  certain actions  by  Federal  Reserve  Banks
                    during  an  emergency  and  the  Regulation  relating  to  Open
                   Market  Operations  of  Federal  Reserve  Banks.    Members
                   were  asked  to  indicate  if  they  wished  to  have  any  of
                    the  other  authorizations  in  question  placed  on  the
                    agenda  for  consideration  at  this  meeting,  and  no  such
                    requests  were  received.
3/28-29/83
                     The  authorizations  in  question were  as  follows:
                     1.    Procedures  for  allocation  of  securities  in  the
                             System  Open  Market  Account.
                     2.    List  of  Treasury  Department  officials  to  whom  weekly
                             reports  on  open market  operations  may  be  sent.
                     3.    Authority  for  the  Chairman  to  appoint  a Federal  Reserve
                             Bank  as  agent  to  operate  the  System Account  in  case
                             the  New York  Bank  is  unable  to  function.
                     4.    Resolution  of  FOMC  to  provide  for  the  continued  operation
                             of  the  Committee  during  an  emergency  and  Resolution  of
                             FOMC  authorizing  certain  actions  by  Federal  Reserve
                             Banks  during  an  emergency.
                     5.    Resolution  relating  to  examinations  of  the  System  Open
                             Market  Account.
                     6.    Guidelines  for  the  conduct  of  System  operations  in
                             Federal  agency  issues.
                     7.    Regulation  relating  to  Open  Market  Operations  of  Federal
                             Reserve  Banks.
                     8.    Rules  of  Organization,  Rules  Regarding  Availability  of
                             Information,  and  Rules  of  Procedure.
                     By  unanimous  vote  the  Authorization  for Foreign  Currency Operations
 shown  below was  reaffirmed:
                            AUTHORIZATION  FOR  FOREIGN  CURRENCY  OPERATIONS
                                                Reaffirmed  March  28,  1983
    1.    The  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs  the  Federal
Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  for  System  Open  Market  Account,  to  the  extent
necessary  to  carry  out  the  Committee's  foreign  currency  directive  and
express  authorizations  by  the  Committee  pursuant  thereto,  and  in  conformity
with  such  procedural  instructions  as  the  Committee  may  issue  from  time  to
 time:
    A.    To  purchase  and  sell  the  following  foreign  currencies  in  the  form
of  cable  transfers  through  spot  or  forward  transactions  on  the  open  market
at  home  and  abroad,  including  transactions  with  the  U.  S. Treasury,  with
 the  U.  S. Exchange  Stabilization  Fund  established  by  Section  10  of  the  Gold
Reserve  Act  of  1934,  with  foreign  monetary  authorities,  with  the  Bank
for  International  Settlements,  and  with  other  international  financial
institutions:
3/28-29/83
                                                       Austrian  schillings
                                                       Belgian  francs
                                                       Canadian  dollars
                                                       Danish  kroner
                                                       Pounds  sterling
                                                       French  francs
                                                       German  marks
                                                       Italian  lire
                                                       Japanese  yen
                                                       Mexican  pesos
                                                       Netherlands  guilders
                                                       Norwegian  kroner
                                                       Swedish  kronor
                                                       Swiss  francs
     B.    To  hold  balances  of,   and  to  have  outstanding  forward  contracts  to
 receive  or  to  deliver,  the  foreign  currencies  listed  in  paragraph  A  above.
     C.    To  draw  foreign  currencies  and  to  permit  foreign  banks  to  draw  dollars
 under  the  reciprocal  currency  arrangements  listed  in  paragraph  2  below,
 provided  that  drawings  by  either  party  to  any  such  arrangement  shall  be
 fully  liquidated  within  12  months  after  any  amount  outstanding  at  that  time
 was  first  drawn,  unless  the  Committee,  because  of  exceptional  circumstances,
 specifically  authorizes  a delay.
     D.    To maintain  an  overall  open  position  in  all  foreign  currencies  not
 exceeding  $8.0  billion.    For  this  purpose,  the  overall  open  position  in  all
 foreign  currencies  is  defined  as  the  sum  (disregarding  signs)  of  net  posi
 tions  in  individual  currencies.    The  net  position  in  a  single  foreign
 currency  is  defined  as  holdings  of  balances  in  that  currency,  plus  out
 standing  contracts  for  future  receipt,  minus  outstanding  contracts  for
 future  delivery  of  that  currency,  i.e.,  as  the  sum  of  these  elements
 with  due  regard  to  sign.
     2.    The  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  directs  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
 New York  to  maintain  reciprocal  currency  arrangements  ("swap"  arrangements)
 for  the  System  Open Market  Account  for  periods  up  to  a maximum  of  12  months
with  the  following  foreign  banks,  which  are  among  those  designated  by  the
 Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  under  Section  214.5  of
 Regulation N,  Relations  with  Foreign  Banks  and  Bankers,  and  with  the  approval
 of  the  Committee  to  renew  such  arrangements  on  maturity:
3/28-29/83
                                                                                                 Amount  of  arrangement
                                                                                                   (millions  of  dollars
                   Foreign  bank                                                                             equivalent)
           Austrian  National  Bank                                                                                250
           National  Bank  of  Belgium                                                                         1,000
           Bank  of  Canada                                                                                    2,000
           National  Bank of  Denmark                                                                             250
           Bank  of  England                                                                                  3,000
           Bank  of  France                                                                                    2,000
           German  Federal  Bank                                                                               6,000
           Bank of  Italy                                                                                      3,000
           Bank  of  Japan                                                                                     5,000
           Bank  of  Mexico
                 Regular                                                                                           700
                 Special                                                                                           325
           Netherlands  Bank                                                                                       500
           Bank  of  Norway                                                                                        250
           Bank  of  Sweden                                                                                        300
           Swiss  National  Bank                                                                               4,000
           Bank  for  International  Settlements:
               Dollars  against  Swiss  francs                                                                     600
               Dollars  against  authorized  European
                   currencies  other  than  Swiss  francs                                                      1,250
 Any  changes  in  the  terms  of  existing  swap  arrangements,  and  the  proposed
 terms  of  any  new  arrangements  that  may  be  authorized,  shall  be  referred
 for  review  and  approval  to  the  Committee.
     3.    All  transactions  in  foreign  currencies  undertaken  under  paragraph
 1(A) above  shall,  unless  otherwise  expressly  authorized  by  the  Committee,
 be  at  prevailing market  rates.    For  the  purpose  of  providing  an  investment
 return  on  System  holdings  of  foreign  currencies,  or  for  the  purpose  of
 adjusting  interest  rates  paid  or  received  in  connection  with  swap  drawings,
 transactions  with  foreign  central  banks  may  be  undertaken  at  non-market
 exchange  rates.
     4.    It  shall  be  the  normal  practice  to  arrange with  foreign  central  banks
 for  the  coordination  of  foreign  currency  transactions.    In  making  operating
 arrangements  with  foreign  central  banks  on  System  holdings  of  foreign
 currencies,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank of  New York  shall  not  commit  itself
 to  maintain  any  specific  balance,  unless  authorized  by  the  Federal  Open
Market  Committee.    Any  agreements  or  understandings  concerning  the
 administration  of  the  accounts  maintained  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
 New York  with  the  foreign  banks  designated  by  the  Board  of  Governors  under
 Section  214.5  of  Regulation  N  shall  be  referred  for  review  and  approval  to
 the  Committee.
e  accounts  maintained  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
 New York  with  the  foreign  banks  designated  by  the  Board  of  Governors  under
 Section  214.5  of  Regulation  N  shall  be  referred  for  review  and  approval  to
 the  Committee.

