                             Meeting  of  the Federal  Open  Market  Committee
                                                            March  26-27,  1984
                                                            Minutes  of  Actions
                    A  meeting  of  the  Federal Open  Market  Committee was  held  in the
offices  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  in Washington,
D.  C.,  on  Monday,  March  26,  1984  at  2:00  p.m.,  and  continuing  on  Tuesday,
March  27,  1984  at  12:00  p.m.
          PRESENT:    Mr.  Volcker,  Chairman
                              Mr.  Solomon, Vice  Chairman
                              Mr.  Boehne
                              Mr.  Boykin
                              Mr.  Corrigan
                              Mr.  Gramley
                              Mrs.  Horn
                              Mr. Martin
                              Mr.  Partee
                              Mr.  Rice
                              Mrs.  Teeters
                              Mr.  Wallich
                              Messrs.  Balles,  Black, Forrestal,  and  Keehn,  Alternate  Members  of
                                        the  Federal  Open Market  Committee
                              Messrs.  Guffey,  Morris,  and Roberts,  Presidents  of  the  Federal
                                        Reserve  Banks  of Kansas  City, Boston,  and  St.  Louis,
                                        respectively
                                        Mr.  Axilrod,  Staff  Director  and  Secretary
                                        Mr.  Bernard, Assistant  Secretary
                                        Mrs.  Steele,  1/ Deputy  Assistant  Secretary
                                        Mr.  Bradfield,  General  Counsel
                                        Mr.  Oltman,  1/  Deputy  General  Counsel
                                        Mr.  Kichline,  Economist
                                        Mr.  Truman, Economist  (International)
                                        Messrs.  Burns,1/  J.  Davis,1/  R.  Davis,1/  Kohn,1/  Lindsey,1/
                                                  Prell,1/  Siegman,1/  Stern,1/  and  Zeisel,1/
                                                  Associate  Economists
                                        Mr.  Sternlight,  Manager  for  Domestic  Operations,  System
                                                  Open  Market  Account
1/     Attended  Monday  session  and  Tuesday  session  before  action  to  adopt
        domestic  policy  directive.
3/26-27/84
                                        Mr.  Coyne,  Assistant  to  the  Board  of  Governors
                                        Mr.  Roberts,  Assistant  to  the  Chairman,  Board  of  Governors
                                        Mr.  Gemmill,1/  Senior  Associate  Director,  Division  of
                                                  International  Finance,  Board  of  Governors
                                        Mrs.  Low, Open Market  Secretariat  Assistant,
                                                  Board  of  Governors
                                        Messrs.  Balbach,1/  T.  Davis,1/  Eisenmenger,1/  Ms.  Greene,
                                                  Messrs.  Keran,1/  Mullineaux,1/  and  Scheld,1/  Senior
                                                  Vice  Presidents, Federal  Reserve Banks  of  St.  Louis,
                                                  Kansas  City,  Boston,  New  York,  San  Francisco,
                                                  Philadelphia,  and  Chicago,  respectively
                                        Mr.  Broaddus,1/  Vice  President,  Federal Reserve  Bank  of
                                                  Richmond
                                        Ms.  Clarkin,1/  Assistant  Vice  President,  Federal  Reserve
                                                  Bank of  New  York
                                        Mr. Keleher,1/  Research  Officer,  Federal Reserve  Bank  of
                                                  Atlanta
                     In  the  agenda  for  this  meeting,  it  was  reported  that  advices  of  the
 election  of  the  following  members  and  alternate  members  of  the  Federal  Open
Market  Committee  for  the  year  commencing March  1, 1984,  had  been  received by
 the  Secretary  and  the  named  individuals  had  executed  their  oaths  of  office.
                    The  elected  members  and  alternate  members  were  as  follows:
Anthony  M.  Solomon,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York, with
           Thomas  M.  Timlen, First  Vice  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
           New York,  as  alternate;
Edward  G.  Boehne,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Philadelphia,  with
           Robert  P.  Black,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Richmond,  as
           alternate;
Karen N.  Horn,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Cleveland,  with
           Silas  Keehn, President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Chicago,  as
           alternate;
Robert  H.  Boykin,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Dallas,  with
          Robert  P. Forrestal,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Atlanta,
          as  alternate;
E.  Gerald  Corrigan,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Minneapolis,
          with John  J.  Balles,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
          San  Francisco,  as  alternate.
1/   Attended  Monday  session  and  Tuesday session  before  action  to  adopt  the
        domestic  policy  directive.
3/26-27/84                                                             -  3  -
                    By  unanimous vote,  the  following  officers  of  the  Federal  Open  Market
 Committee  were  elected  to  serve  until  the  election  of  their  successors  at  the
 first  meeting  of  the  Committee  after February  28,  1985,  with  the  understanding
 that  in  the  event  of  the  discontinuance  of  their  official  connection with  the
Board  of  Governors  or  with  a  Federal Reserve  Bank, as  the  case  might  be,  they
would  cease  to  have  any  official  connection with  the  Federal  Open  Market
 Committee:
 Paul  A.  Volcker                                                                       Chairman
 Anthony  M.  Solomon                                                                    Vice  Chairman
 Stephen  H. Axilrod                                                                     Staff  Director  and  Secretary
Normand  R. V.  Bernard                                                                  Assistant  Secretary
Nancy  M.  Steele                                                                        Deputy  Assistant  Secretary
Michael  Bradfield                                                                       General  Counsel
James  H.  Oltman                                                                        Deputy General  Counsel
James  L.  Kichline                                                                      Economist
 Edwin  M.  Truman                                                                       Economist  (International)
Joseph  E.  Burns,  John  M.  Davis,
    Richard  G.  Davis,  Donald  L.  Kohn,
    Richard  W.  Lang,  David  E.  Lindsey,
    Michael  J.  Prell,  Charles  J.  Siegman,
    Gary  H.  Stern,  and  Joseph  S.  Zeisel                                            Associate  Economists
                    By  unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York was  selected
 to  execute  transactions  for  the  System  Open  Market  Account  until  the  adjourn
ment  of  the  first  meeting  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  after
 February  28,  1985.
                    By  unanimous  vote,  Peter  D.  Sternlight  and  Sam Y.  Cross  were
 selected  to  serve  at  the  pleasure  of  the  Committee  in  the  capacities  of
Manager  for  Domestic  Operations,  System  Open  Market  Account,  and  Manager  for
 Foreign  Operations,  System  Open  Market  Account,  respectively,  on  the  under
 standing  that  their  selection  was  subject  to  their  being  satisfactory  to  the
 Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York.
3/26-27/84                                                              -   4  -
                     Secretary's  note:     Advice  was  subsequently  received  that
                     the  selections  indicated  above were  satisfactory  to  the
                     Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York.
                     Consideration  was  then  given  to  the  continuing  authorizations  of
the  Committee,  in  accordance  with  the  customary  practice  of  reviewing  such
matters  at  the  first  meeting  in  March  of  every  year.
                     Secretary's  note:     On  March  7, 1984,  certain  continuing
                     authorizations  of  the  Committee,  listed  below, had  been
                     distributed  by  the  Secretary  with  the  advice  that,  in
                     accordance  with  procedures  approved by  the  Committee,
                     they  were  being  called  to  the  Committee's  attention
                     before  the March  organization  meeting  to  give  members
                     an  opportunity  to  raise  any  questions  they  had  concerning
                     them.    Members  were  asked  to  so  indicate  if  they  wished
                     to  have  any of  the  authorizations  in  question  placed  on
                     the  agenda  for  consideration  at  this  meeting,  and  no
                     such  requests  were  received.
                     The  authorizations  in  question were  as  follows:
                     1.    Procedures  for  allocation  of  securities  in  the
                             System Open Market  Account.
                     2.    Authority  for  the  Chairman  to  appoint  a Federal
                             Reserve  Bank  as  agent  to  operate  the  System Account
                             in  case  the  New  York  Bank  is  unable  to  function.
                     3.    Resolutions  providing  for  continued  operations  of  the
                             Committee  and  for  certain  actions  by  the  Reserve  Banks
                             during  an  emergency.
                     4.    Resolution  relating  to  examinations  of  the  System  Open
                             Market  Account.
                     5.    Guidelines  for  the  conduct  of  System  operations  in
                             Federal  agency  issues.
                     6.    Regulation  relating  to  Open  Market  Operations  of  Federal
                             Reserve  Banks.
                     7.    Rules  of  Organization, Rules  Regarding Availability  of
                             Information,  and  Rules  of  Procedure.
3/26-27/84                                                             -   5  -
                    By  unanimous  vote  the Authorization  for  Foreign  Currency  Operations
 shown below was  reaffirmed:
                            AUTHORIZATION  FOR  FOREIGN  CURRENCY OPERATIONS
                                                    Reaffirmed  March  26,  1984
     1.    The Federal  Open  Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs  the  Federal
 Reserve Bank  of  New York,  for  System  Open  Market  Account,  to  the  extent
 necessary  to  carry  out  the  Committee's  foreign  currency directive  and
 express  authorizations  by the  Committee  pursuant  thereto,  and  in  conformity
with  such procedural  instructions  as  the  Committee may  issue  from  time  to
 time:
    A.    To  purchase  and  sell  the  following  foreign  currencies  in  the  form
of  cable  transfers  through  spot  or  forward  transactions  on  the  open  market  at
 home  and  abroad,  including  transactions  with  the  U.  S. Treasury,  with  the
 U.  S.  Exchange  Stabilization Fund  established  by  Section  10 of  the  Gold
Reserve  Act  of  1934,  with  foreign monetary  authorities,  with  the Bank
 for  International  Settlements,  and  with  other  international  financial
 institutions:
                                                      Austrian  schillings
                                                      Belgian  francs
                                                      Canadian  dollars
                                                      Danish  kroner
                                                      Pounds  sterling
                                                      French francs
                                                      German marks
                                                      Italian  lire
                                                      Japanese  yen
                                                      Mexican  pesos
                                                      Netherlands  guilders
                                                      Norwegian  kroner
                                                      Swedish  kronor
                                                      Swiss  francs
    B.    To  hold  balances  of,  and  to  have  outstanding  forward  contracts  to
receive  or  to  deliver,  the  foreign  currencies  listed  in  paragraph  A  above.
    C.    To  draw  foreign  currencies  and  to  permit  foreign  banks  to  draw  dollars
under  the  reciprocal  currency  arrangements  listed  in  paragraph 2  below,
provided  that  drawings  by  either  party  to  any  such arrangement  shall  be
fully  liquidated  within  12  months  after  any  amount  outstanding at  that  time
was  first  drawn,  unless  the  Committee,  because  of  exceptional  circumstances,
specifically  authorizes  a  delay.
    D.    To  maintain  an  overall  open  position  in  all  foreign  currencies  not
exceeding  $8.0  billion.    For  this  purpose,  the  overall  open  position  in  all
3/26-27/84                                                             -  6  -
 foreign  currencies  is  defined  as  the  sum  (disregarding  signs)  of  net posi
 tions  in  individual  currencies.    The net  position  in  a  single  foreign
 currency  is  defined  as  holdings  of  balances  in  that  currency,  plus  out
 standing  contracts  for  future  receipt,  minus  outstanding  contracts  for
 future  delivery  of  that  currency,  i.e.,  as  the  sum  of  these  elements
with  due  regard  to  sign.
     2.    The Federal  Open Market  Committee  directs  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank of
 New York  to  maintain  reciprocal  currency arrangements  ("swap"  arrangements)
 for  the  System  Open  Market  Account  for  periods  up  to  a maximum  of  12  months
with  the  following  foreign  banks,  which  are  among  those  designated  by  the
 Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  under  Section  214.5  of
 Regulation  N,  Relations  with  Foreign  Banks  and  Bankers,  and  with  the  approval
 of  the  Committee  to  renew  such  arrangements  on maturity:
                                                                                               Amount  of  arrangement
                                                                                                  (millions of  dollars
                  Foreign  bank                                                                            equivalent)
          Austrian  National  Bank                                                                               250
          National  Bank  of  Belgium                                                                        1,000
          Bank  of  Canada                                                                                   2,000
          National  Bank  of  Denmark                                                                            250
          Bank  of  England                                                                                  3,000
          Bank  of  France                                                                                   2,000
          German  Federal  Bank                                                                              6,000
          Bank  of  Italy                                                                                    3,000
          Bank  of  Japan                                                                                    5,000
          Bank  of  Mexico                                                                                       700
          Netherlands  Bank                                                                                      500
          Bank  of  Norway                                                                                       250
          Bank  of  Sweden                                                                                       300
           Swiss  National  Bank                                                                             4,000
          Bank  for  International  Settlements:
              Dollars  against  Swiss  francs                                                                    600
              Dollars  against  authorized  European
                  currencies  other  than  Swiss  francs                                                     1,250
Any  changes  in  the  terms  of  existing  swap  arrangements,  and  the  proposed
 terms  of  any  new  arrangements  that  may  be  authorized,  shall  be  referred
 for  review and  approval  to  the  Committee.
     3.   All  transactions  in  foreign  currencies  undertaken  under  paragraph
 1(A) above  shall,  unless  otherwise  expressly  authorized  by  the  Committee,
be  at  prevailing  market  rates.    For  the  purpose  of  providing  an  investment
3/26-27/84                                                             -   7 -
 return  on  System  holdings  of  foreign  currencies,  or  for  the  purpose of
 adjusting  interest  rates  paid  or  received  in connection  with  swap  drawings,
 transactions  with  foreign  central  banks  may  be  undertaken  at  non-market
 exchange  rates.
     4.    It  shall  be  the  normal  practice  to  arrange  with  foreign  central  banks
 for  the  coordination  of  foreign  currency  transactions.    In  making  operating
 arrangements  with  foreign  central  banks  on  System holdings  of  foreign
 currencies,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York  shall  not  commit  itself
 to  maintain  any  specific  balance,  unless  authorized  by  the  Federal  Open
Market  Committee.    Any  agreements  or understandings  concerning  the
 administration of  the  accounts  maintained  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
 New York with  the  foreign  banks  designated  by the  Board  of  Governors  under
 Section  214.5  of  Regulation  N  shall  be  referred  for  review and  approval  to
 the  Committee.
     5.   Foreign  currency  holdings  shall  be  invested  insofar  as  practicable,
 considering  needs  for minimum  working  balances.    Such  investments  shall  be
 in  liquid  form,  and  generally  have  no more  than 12  months  remaining  to
maturity.    When appropriate  in  connection with arrangements  to  provide
 investment  facilities  for  foreign  currency  holdings,  U.  S. Government
 securities  may  be  purchased  from  foreign  central  banks  under  agreements
 for repurchase  of  such securities  within  30  calendar  days.
     6.   All  operations  undertaken  pursuant  to  the preceding  paragraphs  shall
 be  reported  promptly  to  the  Foreign  Currency  Subcommittee  and  the  Committee.
 The Foreign  Currency  Subcommittee  consists  of  the  Chairman and  Vice  Chairman
 of  the  Committee,  the    Vice  Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Governors,  and  such  other
member  of  the  Board  as  the  Chairman may  designate  (or  in  the  absence  of
members  of  the  Board  serving  on  the  Subcommittee, other  Board  Members
designated  by  the  Chairman  as  alternates,  and  in  the  absence  of  the  Vice
 Chairman of  the  Committee,  his  alternate).    Meetings  of  the  Subcommittee
 shall  be  called  at  the  request  of  any member,  or  at  the  request  of  the
Manager  for  Foreign  Operations,  for  the  purposes  of  reviewing  recent  or
 contemplated  operations  and  of  consulting with  the  Manager  on  other
matters  relating  to  his  responsibilities.    At  the  request  of  any  member
of  the  Subcommittee,  questions  arising  from  such  reviews  and  consultations
 shall  be  referred  for  determination  to  the  Federal Open  Market  Committee.
    7.    The  Chairman  is  authorized:
          A.    With  the  approval  of  the  Committee,  to  enter  into  any  needed
agreement  or  understanding  with  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury about  the
division  of  responsibility  for  foreign  currency  operations  between  the
 System and  the  Treasury;
          B.    To  keep  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  fully  advised  concerning
 System  foreign  currency  operations,  and  to  consult  with  the  Secretary  on
policy  matters  relating  to  foreign  currency  operations;
 the
 System and  the  Treasury;
          B.    To  keep  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  fully  advised  concerning
 System  foreign  currency  operations,  and  to  consult  with  the  Secretary  on
policy  matters  relating  to  foreign  currency  operations;

