                             Meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee
                                                                March  26,  1985
                                                           Minutes  of  Actions
                    A meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  was  held  in
the  offices  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System
in  Washington,  D.  C.,  on  Monday,  March  26,  1985  at  9:00  a.m.
          PRESENT:    Mr.   Volcker,  Chairman
                              Mr.   Corrigan,  Vice  Chairman
                              Mr.  Balles
                              Mr.  Black
                              Mr.  Forrestal
                              Mr.  Gramley
                              Mr.  Keehn
                              Mr.   Martin
                              Mr.  Partee
                              Mr.  Rice
                              Ms.  Seger
                              Mr.  Wallich
                              Messrs.  Boykin,  Guffey, Mrs.  Horn,  and  Mr.  Morris,  Alternate
                                        Members  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee
                              Messrs.  Boehne  and  Stern,  Presidents  of  the  Federal
                                        Reserve  Banks  of  Philadelphia and  Minneapolis,
                                        respectively
                                        Mr. Axilrod,  Staff  Director and  Secretary
                                        Mr.  Bernard,  Assistant  Secretary
                                        Mrs.  Steele,  Deputy Assistant  Secretary
                                        Mr.  Bradfield,  1/  General  Counsel
                                        Mr.  Kichline,  Economist
                                        Mr.  Truman,  Economist  (International)
                                        Messrs.  Bisignano,  Broaddus,  R.  Davis,  Kohn, Lindsey,
                                                  Prell,  Scheld,  Siegman,  and  Ms.  Tshinkel
                                                 Associate  Economists
                                       Mr.  Sternlight,  Manager  for  Domestic  Operations,  System
                                                  Open Market  Account
                                        Mr.  Cross,  Manager  for  Foreign  Operations,  System
                                                  Open  Market  Account
                                      1/ Entered after  action  to  ratify  transactions  in  domestic  operations.
3/26/85                                                                -  2  -
                                        Mr.  Coyne,  Assistant  to  the  Board  of  Governors
                                        Mr.  Roberts,  Assistant  to  the  Chairman,  Board  of  Governors
                                        Mrs.  Low,  Open  Market  Secretariat  Assistant,
                                                  Board  of  Governors
                                        Messrs.  Garbarini  and  Hendricks,  First  Vice  Presidents,
                                                  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  St.  Louis  and  Cleveland,
                                                  respectively
                                        Messrs.  Balbach, Burns,  T. Davis,  and Lang,  Senior  Vice
                                                  Presidents,  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  St.  Louis,
                                                  Dallas,  Kansas  City, and  Philadelphia,  respectively
                                        Messrs.  McNees,  Meek, and  Rolnick, Vice  Presidents,
                                                  Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  Boston,  New York,  and
                                                  Minneapolis,  respectively
                    In  the  agenda  for  this meeting,  it  was  reported  that  advices  of  the
 election  of  the  following  members  and  alternate members  of  the  Federal  Open
 Market  Committee for  the  year  commencing March  1, 1985,  had  been  received  by
                                                                              1/
 the  Secretary  and  the  named  individuals    had  executed  their  oaths  of  office.
                    The  elected members  and  alternate  members  were  as  follows:
 E. Gerald  Corrigan,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York, with
          Thomas  M. Timlen,  First  Vice  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
          New  York, as  alternate;
 Robert  P. Black, President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Richmond,  with
          Frank  E. Morris,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank of  Boston,  as
          alternate;
 Silas  Keehn,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Chicago,  with
          Karen  N. Horn, President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Cleveland,  as
          alternate;
Robert  P. Forrestal,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Atlanta, with
          Robert  H.  Boykin,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Dallas,
          as  alternate;
John  J. Balles,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  San  Francisco,
          with  Roger  Guffey,  President  of  the Federal  Reserve  Bank of
          Kansas  City,  as  alternate.
1/   Mr.  Timlen,  out  of  the  country  at  this  time,  executed  his  oath of  office
        on  April  1,  1985.
3/26/85                                                                -  3  -
                    By  unanimous  vote,  the  following  officers  of  the  Federal  Open Market
 Committee  were  elected  to  serve  until  the  election  of  their  successors  at  the
 first  meeting  of  the  Committee  after  February  28,  1986,  with  the  understanding
 that  in  the  event  of  the  discontinuance  of  their  official  connection with  the
 Board  of  Governors  or with  a  Federal  Reserve  Bank,  they would  cease  to  have
 any  official  connection with the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee:
 Paul  A. Volcker                                                                        Chairman
 E. Gerald  Corrigan                                                                    Vice  Chairman
 Stephen  H. Axilrod                                                                     Staff  Director and  Secretary
 Normand  R. V.  Bernard                                                                Assistant  Secretary
 Nancy M.  Steele                                                                        Deputy Assistant  Secretary
Michael  Bradfield                                                                       General  Counsel
James  H. Oltman                                                                         Deputy  General  Counsel
 James  L. Kichline                                                                      Economist
Edwin  M.  Truman                                                                        Economist  (International)
Joseph  R.  Bisignano,  J.  Alfred  Broaddus,
    Richard  G.  Davis,  Donald  L.  Kohn,
    David  E.  Lindsey, Michael  J.  Prell,
    Karl  A.  Scheld,  Charles  J.  Siegman,
    and  Sheila  L.  Tschinkel                                                           Associate  Economists
                    By  unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York was  selected
 to  execute  transactions  for  the  System  Open  Market  Account  until  the  adjourn
ment  of  the  first  meeting  of  the  Committee  after  February  28,  1986.
                    By  unanimous  vote,  Peter D.  Sternlight  and  Sam  Y.  Cross  were
selected  to  serve  at  the  pleasure  of  the  Committee  in  the  capacities  of
Manager  for  Domestic Operations,  System  Open  Market  Account,  and Manager  for
Foreign  Operations,  System  Open Market  Account,  respectively,  on  the  under
standing  that  their  selection  was  subject  to  their  being  satisfactory  to  the
Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York.
                    Secretary's  note:    Advice  was  subseqently  received
                    that  the  selections  indicated  above  were  satisfactory
                    to  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank of  New York.
3/26/85                                                                -  4  -
                    Consideration was  then given  to  the  continuing  authorizations  of
 the  Committee,  in  accordance  with  the  customary  practice  of  reviewing  such
matters  at  the  first  meeting  in  March of  every  year.
                    Secretary's  note:     On March  6, 1985,  certain  continuing
                    authorizations  of  the  Committee,  listed  below, had  been
                    distributed  by  the  Secretary  with  the  advice  that,  in
                    accordance with  procedures  approved  by  the  Committee,
                    they  were  being  called  to  the  Committee's  attention
                    before  the March  organization  meeting  to  give members
                    an  opportunity  to  raise  any  questions  they might  have
                    concerning  them.   Members  were  asked  to  so  indicate  if
                    they wished  to  have any  of  the  authorizations  in  question
                    placed  on  the  agenda for  consideration  at  this  meeting,
                    and  no  such  requests were  received.
                    The  authorizations  in question  were  as  follows:
                    1.   Procedures  for  allocation  of  securities  in  the
                            System  Open Market  Account.
                    2.   Authority  for  the  Chairman  to  appoint  a  Federal
                            Reserve  Bank as  agent  to  operate  the  System Account
                            in  case  the  New  York  Bank  is  unable  to  function.
                    3.   Resolutions  providing  for  continued  operations  of  the
                            Committee  and  for  certain  actions  by  the  Reserve  Banks
                            during  an  emergency.
                    4.    Resolution  relating  to  examinations  of  the  System  Open
                            Market Account.
                    5.    Guidelines  for the  conduct  of  System  operations  in
                            Federal  agency  issues.
                    6.   Regulation  relating to  Open Market  Operations  of  Federal
                            Reserve  Banks.
                    7.    Rules  of  Organization,  Rules  Regarding  Availability  of
                            Information,  and  Rules  of  Procedure.
                    8.    Agreement  with  the  U.S.  Treasury  to  Warehouse  Foreign
                            Currencies
3/26/85                                                                -  5  -
                    By  unanimous  vote  the  Authorization  for  Foreign Currency  Operations
 shown  below was  reaffirmed:
                            AUTHORIZATION  FOR  FOREIGN  CURRENCY  OPERATIONS
                                                    Reaffirmed  March  26,  1985
     1.    The  Federal  Open Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs  the  Federal
 Reserve  Bank  of  New York,  for  System  Open  Market  Account,  to  the  extent
 necessary  to  carry  out  the  Committee's  foreign  currency directive  and
 express  authorizations  by the  Committee  pursuant  thereto,  and  in  conformity
 with  such procedural  instructions  as  the  Committee may  issue  from  time  to
 time:
     A.    To  purchase  and  sell  the  following  foreign  currencies  in  the  form
 of  cable  transfers  through spot  or  forward  transactions  on  the  open  market  at
 home  and  abroad,  including  transactions  with  the  U.  S. Treasury, with  the
 U.  S. Exchange  Stabilization  Fund  established  by  Section  10  of  the  Gold
 Reserve  Act  of  1934,  with  foreign  monetary  authorities, with  the  Bank
 for  International  Settlements,  and  with  other  international  financial
 institutions:
                                                      Austrian  schillings
                                                      Belgian  francs
                                                      Canadian  dollars
                                                      Danish kroner
                                                      Pounds  sterling
                                                      French  francs
                                                      German marks
                                                      Italian  lire
                                                      Japanese  yen
                                                      Mexican pesos
                                                      Netherlands  guilders
                                                      Norwegian  kroner
                                                      Swedish  kronor
                                                      Swiss  francs
     B.   To  hold  balances  of,  and  to  have  outstanding  forward  contracts  to
 receive  or  to  deliver,  the  foreign  currencies  listed  in  paragraph A  above.
     C.   To  draw  foreign  currencies  and  to  permit  foreign  banks  to  draw  dollars
under  the  reciprocal  currency  arrangements  listed  in  paragraph  2  below,
 provided  that  drawings  by  either  party to  any  such  arrangement  shall  be
 fully liquidated                within  12  months  after  any  amount  outstanding  at  that  time
was  first  drawn,  unless  the  Committee,  because  of  exceptional  circumstances,
specifically  authorizes  a  delay.
    D.    To maintain  an  overall  open  position  in  all  foreign  currencies  not
exceeding  $8.0  billion.    For  this  purpose,  the  overall  open  position  in  all
3/26/85                                                                -  6 -
 foreign  currencies  is  defined  as  the  sum  (disregarding  signs)  of  net  posi
 tions  in  individual  currencies.    The net  position  in a  single foreign
 currency is  defined  as  holdings  of balances  in  that  currency, plus  out
 standing contracts  for  future  receipt,  minus  outstanding  contracts  for
 future  delivery  of  that  currency,  i.e.,  as  the  sum  of  these  elements
 with  due regard  to  sign.
     2.   The  Federal  Open Market  Committee  directs  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
 New York  to  maintain  reciprocal  currency  arrangements  ("swap"  arrangements)
 for  the  System  Open  Market  Account  for  periods up  to  a maximum  of  12  months
 with  the  following  foreign  banks,  which are  among  those  designated  by the
 Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  under  Section  214.5  of
 Regulation N,  Relations  with  Foreign  Banks  and  Bankers,  and with  the  approval
 of  the  Committee  to  renew  such  arrangements  on  maturity:
                                                                                               Amount  of  arrangement
                                                                                                 (millions  of  dollars
                  Foreign  bank                                                                           equivalent)
           Austrian National  Bank                                                                              250
           National  Bank  of  Belgium                                                                      1,000
           Bank  of  Canada                                                                                 2,000
           National  Bank  of  Denmark                                                                          250
           Bank of  England                                                                                 3,000
           Bank  of  France                                                                                 2,000
           German  Federal  Bank                                                                            6,000
           Bank  of  Italy                                                                                  3,000
           Bank of  Japan                                                                                   5,000
           Bank  of  Mexico                                                                                     700
          Netherlands  Bank                                                                                     500
           Bank  of Norway                                                                                      250
          Bank  of  Sweden                                                                                      300
           Swiss  National  Bank                                                                            4,000
          Bank  for  International  Settlements:
              Dollars  against  Swiss  francs                                                                   600
              Dollars  against  authorized  European
                  currencies  other  than  Swiss  francs                                                    1,250
Any  changes  in  the  terms  of  existing  swap  arrangements,  and  the  proposed
 terms  of  any  new  arrangements  that  may  be  authorized,  shall  be  referred
 for  review  and  approval  to  the  Committee.
    3.   All  transactions  in  foreign  currencies  undertaken  under  paragraph
1(A)  above  shall,  unless  otherwise  expressly  authorized  by  the  Committee,
be  at  prevailing  market  rates.    For  the  purpose  of  providing  an  investment
  3/26/85                                                                -  7  -
  return  on  System holdings  of  foreign  currencies,  or  for  the  purpose  of
  adjusting  interest  rates  paid  or  received  in  connection with  swap drawings,
  transactions  with  foreign  central  banks  may  be undertaken  at  non-market
  exchange  rates.
      4.    It  shall  be  the  normal  practice  to  arrange  with  foreign  central  banks
  for  the  coordination  of  foreign  currency  transactions.    In making  operating
  arrangements  with  foreign  central  banks  on  System holdings  of  foreign
  currencies,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York  shall  not  commit  itself
  to maintain  any  specific  balance,  unless  authorized  by  the  Federal  Open
  Market  Committee.    Any  agreements  or  understandings  concerning  the
  administration  of  the  accounts  maintained  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
  New York  with  the  foreign  banks  designated  by  the  Board  of  Governors  under
   Section 214.5  of  Regulation  N  shall  be  referred  for  review and  approval  to
  the  Committee.
      5.    Foreign currency  holdings  shall  be  invested  insofar  as  practicable,
  considering  needs  for  minimum working  balances.    Such  investments  shall  be
  in  liquid  form,  and  generally have  no  more  than  12  months  remaining  to
  maturity.    When  appropriate  in  connection  with  arrangements  to  provide
  investment  facilities  for  foreign  currency  holdings,  U.  S. Government
  securities  may  be  purchased  from foreign  central  banks  under  agreements
  for  repurchase  of  such  securities  within 30  calendar  days.
      6.    All  operations  undertaken  pursuant  to  the  preceding  paragraphs  shall
  be  reported  promptly  to  the  Foreign  Currency  Subcommittee  and  the  Committee.
  The  Foreign Currency  Subcommittee  consists  of  the  Chairman and  Vice  Chairman
  of  the  Committee,  the    Vice  Chairman  of  the  Board  of Governors,  and  such  other
  member  of  the  Board  as  the  Chairman may  designate  (or  in  the  absence  of
  members  of  the  Board  serving  on  the  Subcommittee,  other Board  Members
  designated  by  the  Chairman  as  alternates,  and  in  the  absence  of  the  Vice
  Chairman of  the  Committee,  his  alternate).    Meetings  of  the  Subcommittee
  shall  be  called  at  the  request  of  any member,  or  at  the  request  of  the
  Manager  for  Foreign  Operations,  for  the  purposes  of  reviewing  recent  or
  contemplated  operations  and  of  consulting  with  the  Manager  on  other
  matters  relating  to  his  responsibilities.    At  the  request  of  any  member
  of  the  Subcommittee,  questions  arising  from  such  reviews  and  consultations
  shall  be  referred  for  determination  to  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee.
      7.   The  Chairman  is  authorized:
            A.    With  the  approval  of  the  Committee,  to  enter  into  any needed
  agreement  or understanding  with  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  about  the
of division              responsibility  for  foreign  currency  operations  between  the
  System  and  the  Treasury;
            B.    To  keep  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  fully  advised  concerning
  System  foreign  currency  operations,  and  to  consult  with  the  Secretary  on
  policy  matters  relating  to  foreign  currency  operations;
tem  and  the  Treasury;
            B.    To  keep  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  fully  advised  concerning
  System  foreign  currency  operations,  and  to  consult  with  the  Secretary  on
  policy  matters  relating  to  foreign  currency  operations;

