                                  Meeting  of  the Federal  Open  Market  Committee
                                                                 March  28,  1989
                                                             Minutes  of  Actions
                    A  meeting  of  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  was  held  in
the  offices  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of   the  Federal  Reserve  System
in  Washington,  D.  C.,  on  Tuesday,  March  28,  1989  at  9:00  a.m.
          PRESENT:    Mr.  Greenspan,  Chairman
                               Mr.  Corrigan,  Vice  Chairman
                              Mr.  Angell
                               Mr.  Guffey
                              Mr.  Heller
                               Mr.  Johnson
                              Mr.  Keehn
                               Mr.  Kelley
                              Mr.  LaWare
                              Mr.  Melzer
                              Ms.  Seger
                              Mr.  Syron
                              Messrs.  Boykin,  Hoskins,  and  Stern, Alternate  Members
                                        of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee
                              Messrs.    Black,  Forrestal,  and  Parry,  Presidents  of  the  Federal
                                        Reserve  Banks  of  Richmond,  Atlanta,  and  San  Francisco,
                                        respectively
                                                Kohn,  Secretary  and  Economist
                                                Bernard,  Assistant  Secretary
                                                Gillum,  Deputy  Assistant  Secretary
                                                Mattingly,  General  Counsel
                                                Patrikis,  Deputy  General  Counsel
                                                Prell,  Economist
                                                Truman,  Economist
                                        Messrs.  Balbach,  R.  Davis,  T.  Davis,  Lindsey,
                                                  Ms.  Munnell,  Messrs.  Promisel,  Scheld,
                                                  Siegman,  and  Simpson,  Associate  Economists
                                        Mr.  Sternlight,  Manager  for  Domestic  Operations,  System
                                                  Open  Market  Account
                                        Mr.  Cross,  Manager  for  Foreign  Operations,  System
                                                  Open  Market  Account
 3/28/89
                                                                          -   2  -
                                          Mr.  Coyne,  Assistant  to  the  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr.  Ettin,  Deputy  Director,  Division  of  Research  and
                                                    Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr.  Stockton,  Assistant  Director,  Division  of  Research
                                                    and  Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr.  Keleher,  Assistant  to  Governor  Johnson,  Office  of
                                                    Board  Members,  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr. Wajid,  Assistant  to  Governor  Heller,  Office  of
                                                    Board  Members,  Board  of  Governors
                                          Ms.  Low,  Open  Market  Secretariat  Assistant,  Division  of
                                                    Monetary  Affairs,  Board  of  Governors
                                          Mr.  Stone,  First  Vice  President,  Federal  Reserve
                                                    Bank  of  Philadelphia
                                          Messrs.  Beebe,  J.  Davis,  Lang,  Rolnick,  Rosenblum,  and
                                                    Ms.  Tschinkel,  Senior  Vice  Presidents,  Federal  Reserve
                                                    Banks  of  San  Francisco,  Cleveland,  Philadelphia,
                                                    Minneapolis,  Dallas,  and  Atlanta,  respectively
                                          Mr.  Cook,  Vice  President,  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
                                                    Richmond
                                          Mr.  Guentner,  Assistant  Vice  President,  Federal  Reserve
                                                    Bank  of  New  York
                      In  the  agenda  for  this  meeting,  it  was  reported  that  advices  of  the
 election  of  the  following  members  and  alternate  members  of  the  Federal  Open
 Market  Committee  for  the  period  commencing  March  1,  1989,  and  ending
 December  31,   1989,  had  been  received  and  that  those  individuals  had  executed
 their  oaths  of  office.
                     The  elected  members  and  alternate  members  were  as  follows:
 E.  Gerald  Corrigan,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York,  with
           James  H.  Oltman,  First  Vice  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
           New York,  as  alternate;
 Richard  F.  Syron,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Boston, with
           Edward  G.  Boehne,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Philadelphia,
           as  alternate;
 Silas  Keehn,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Chicago,  with
           W.  Lee  Hoskins,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Cleveland,
           as  alternate;
 Thomas  C.  Melzer,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  St.  Louis,  with
           Robert  H.  Boykin,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Dallas,
           as  alternate;
Roger  Guffey,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Kansas  City,  with
           Gary  H.  Stern,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Minneapolis,
           as  alternate
 3/28/89                                                                 -  3
                     By  unanimous  vote,  the  following  officers  of  the  Federal  Open  Market
 Committee  were  elected  to  serve  until  the  election  of  their  successors  at  the
 first  meeting  of  the  Committee  after  December  31,  1989,  with  the  understanding
 that  in  the  event  of  the  discontinuance  of  their  official  connection  with  the
 Board  of  Governors  or  with  a  Federal  Reserve  Bank,  they  would  cease  to  have
 any  official  connection  with  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee:
 Alan  Greenspan                                                                           Chairman
 E.  Gerald  Corrigan                                                                      Vice  Chairman
 Donald  L. Kohn                                                                           Secretary  and  Economist
 Normand  R.  V.  Bernard                                                                  Assistant  Secretary
 Gary  P.  Gillum                                                                          Deputy  Assistant  Secretary
 J.  Virgil  Mattingly, Jr.                                                                General  Counsel
 Ernest  T.  Patrikis                                                                      Deputy  General  Counsel
 Michael  J.  Prell                                                                        Economist
 Edwin  M.  Truman                                                                         Economist
 Anatol  B.  Balbach,  Richard  G.  Davis,
     Thomas  E.  Davis,  David  E.  Lindsey,
     Alicia  H.  Munnell,  Larry  J.  Promisel,
     Karl  A.  Scheld,  Charles  J.  Siegman,
     Thomas  D.  Simpson,  and  Lawrence  Slifman                                         Associate  Economists
                     By  unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York  was  selected
 to  execute  transactions  for  the  System Open  Market  Account  until  the  adjourn
 ment  of  the  first  meeting  of  the  Committee  after  December  31,  1989.
                     By  unanimous  vote,  Peter  D.  Sternlight  and  Sam Y.  Cross  were
 selected  to  serve  at  the  pleasure  of  the  Committee  in  the  capacities  of
 Manager  for  Domestic  Operations,  System  Open  Market  Account,  and  Manager  for
 Foreign  Operations,  System  Open  Market  Account,  respectively,  on  the  under
 standing  that  their  selection  was  subject  to  their  being  satisfactory  to  the
Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York.
                     Secretary's  note:    Advice  was  subseqently  received
                     that  the  selections  indicated  above  were  satisfactory
                     to  the  board  of  directors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank
                     of  New  York.
3/28/89                                                                -   4 -
                    Secretary's  note:    On  March  13,  1989,  the  continuing
                    rules,  regulations,  authorizations,  and  other  instruments
                    of  the  Committee  listed  below  had  been  distributed  with
                    the  advice  that,  in  accordance  with  procedures  approved
                    by  the  Committee,  they  were  being  called  to  the  Committee's
                    attention  before  the  March  28  organization  meeting  to
                    give  members  an  opportunity  to  raise  any  questions  they
                    might  have  concerning  them.    Members  were  asked  to  so
                    indicate  if  they  wished  to  have  any  of  the  instruments
                    in  question  placed  on  the  agenda  for  consideration  at
                    this  meeting,  and  no  such  requests  were  received.
                    Accordingly,  all  of  the  instruments  remained  in  effect
                    in  their  existing  forms.
                    1.    Procedures  for  allocation  of  securities  in  the
                            System  Open  Market  Account.
                    2.   Authority  for  the  Chairman  to  appoint  a Federal
                            Reserve  Bank  as  agent  to  operate  the  System Account
                            in  case  the  New  York  Bank  is  unable  to  function.
                    3.   Resolutions  providing  for  the  continued  operation  of  the
                            Committee  and  for  certain  actions  by  the  Reserve  Banks
                            during  an  emergency.
                    4.   Resolution  relating  to  examinations  of  the  System  Open
                            Market  Account.
                    5.   Guidelines  for  the  conduct  of  System  operations   in
                            Federal  agency  issues.
                    6.   Regulation  relating  to  Open Market  Operations  of  Federal
                            Reserve  Banks.
                    7.   Rules  of  Organization,  Rules  Regarding Availability  of
                            Information,  and  Rules  of  Procedure.
                    8.   Agreement  with  the  U.S.  Treasury  to  Warehouse  Foreign
                            Currencies.
                    9.    Program  for  Security  of  FOMC  Information.
3/28/89                                                                 -   5  -
                     By  unanimous  vote  the  Authorization  for  Domestic  Open  Market  Operations
 shown  below  was  reaffirmed:
                         AUTHORIZATION  FOR  DOMESTIC  OPEN  MARKET  OPERATIONS
                                                     Reaffirmed  March  28,  1989
     1.    The  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs  the  Federal
 Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  to  the  extent  necessary  to  carry  out  the  most
 recent  domestic  policy  directive  adopted  at  a meeting  of  the  Committee:
           (a)   To  buy  or  sell  U.  S.  Government  securities,  including  securities
 of  the  Federal  Financing  Bank,  and  securities  that  are  direct  obligations
 of,  or  fully  guaranteed  as  to  principal  and  interest  by,  any  agency  of
 the  United  States  in  the  open  market,  from  or  to  securities  dealers  and
 foreign  and  international  accounts  maintained  at  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank
 of  New  York,  on  a  cash,  regular,  or  deferred  delivery  basis,  for  the  System
 Open  Market Account  at  market  prices,  and,  for  such  Account,  to  exchange
 maturing  U.  S.  Government  and  Federal  agency  securities  with  the  Treasury  or
 the  individual  agencies  or  to  allow  them  to  mature  without  replacement;
 provided  that  the  aggregate  amount  of  U.  S.  Government  and  Federal  agency
 securities  held  in  such  Account  (including  forward  commitments)  at  the
 close  of  business  on  the  day  of  a meeting  of  the  Committee  at  which  action
 is  taken  with  respect  to  a  domestic  policy  directive  shall  not  be
 increased  or  decreased  by  more  than  $6.0  billion  during  the  period  com
 mencing  with  the  opening  of  business  on  the  day  following  such  meeting  and
 ending  with  the  close  of  business  on  the  day  of  the  next  such  meeting;
           (b)   When  appropriate,  to  buy  or  sell  in  the  open  market,  from  or
 to  acceptance  dealers  and  foreign  accounts  maintained  at  the  Federal
 Reserve  Bank  of  New York,  on  a  cash,  regular,  or  deferred  delivery  basis,
 for  the  account  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York  at  market  discount
 rates,  prime  bankers  acceptances  with  maturities  of  up  to  nine  months  at
 the  time  of  acceptance  that  (1) arise  out  of  the  current  shipment  of
 goods  between  countries  or  within  the  United  States,  or  (2) arise  out
 of  the  storage  within  the  United  States  of  goods  under  contract  of  sale  or
 expected  to  move  into  the  channels  of  trade  within  a  reasonable  time  and
 that  are  secured  throughout  their  life  by  a warehouse  receipt  or  similar
document  conveying  title  to  the  underlying  goods;  provided  that  the
 aggregate  amount  of  bankers  acceptances  held  at  any  one  time  shall  not
exceed  $100  million;
           (c)   To  buy  U.  S. Government  securities,  obligations  that  are  direct
obligations  of,  or  fully  guaranteed  as  to  principal  and  interest  by,  any
agency  of  the  United  States,  and  prime  bankers  acceptances  of  the  types
authorized  for  purchase  under  1(b)  above,  from dealers  for  the  account  of
 the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York  under  agreements  for  repurchase  of
such  securities,  obligations,  or  acceptances  in  15  calendar  days  or  less,
at  rates  that,  unless  otherwise  expressly  authorized  by  the  Committee,
shall  be  determined  by  competitive  bidding,  after  applying  reasonable
 3/28/89                                                                  -   6  -
 limitations  on  the  volume  of  agreements  with  individual  dealers;  provided
  that  in  the  event  Government  securities  or  agency  issues  covered  by  any
 such  agreement  are  not  repurchased  by  the  dealer  pursuant  to  the  agreement
 or  a  renewal  thereof,  they  shall  be  sold  in  the market  or  transferred   to  the
  System  Open  Market  Account;  and  provided  further  that  in  the  event  bankers
 acceptances  covered  by  any  such  agreement  are  not  repurchased  by  the  seller,
 they  shall  continue  to  be  held  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  or  shall  be  sold
 in  the  open  market.
      2.    In  order  to  ensure  the  effective  conduct  of  open  market  operations,
 the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs  the  Federal
 Reserve  Banks  to  lend  U.  S.  Government  securities  held  in  the  System  Open
 Market  Account  to  Government  securities  dealers  and  to  banks  participating
 in  Government  securities  clearing  arrangements  conducted  through  a  Federal
 Reserve  Bank,  under  such  instructions  as  the  Committee  may  specify  from
 time  to  time.
      3.    In  order  to  ensure  the  effective  conduct  of  open  market  operations,
 while  assisting  in  the  provision  of  short-term  investments  for  foreign  and
 international  accounts  maintained  at  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,
 the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs  the  Federal  Reserve
 Bank  of  New  York  (a) for  System Open Market  Account,  to  sell  U.  S.  Govern
 ment  securities  to  such  foreign  and  international  accounts  on  the  bases
 set  forth  in  paragraph  1(a)  under  agreements  providing  for  the  resale  by
 such  accounts  of  those  securities  within  15  calendar  days  on  terms  com
 parable  to  those  available  on  such  transactions  in  the  market;   and  (b)
 for  New York  Bank  account,  when  appropriate,  to  undertake  with  dealers,
 subject  to  the  conditions  imposed  on  purchases  and  sales  of  securities  in
 paragraph  l(c),  repurchase  agreements  in  U.  S.  Government  and  agency
 securities,  and  to  arrange  corresponding  sale  and  repurchase  agreements
 between  its  own  account  and  foreign  and  international  accounts  maintained
 at  the  Bank.    Transactions  undertaken with  such  accounts  under  the  pro
 visions  of  this  paragraph  may  provide  for  a  service  fee  when  appropriate.
                     By  unanimous  vote  the  Authorization  for  Foreign  Currency  Operations
 shown  below  was  reaffirmed:
                             AUTHORIZATION  FOR  FOREIGN  CURRENCY  OPERATIONS
                                                      Reaffirmed  March  28,  1989
     1.    The  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs  the  Federal
 Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  for  System  Open  Market  Account,  to  the  extent
 necessary  to  carry  out  the  Committee's  foreign  currency  directive  and
 express  authorizations  by  the  Committee  pursuant  thereto,  and  in  conformity
with  such  procedural  instructions  as  the  Committee  may  issue  from  time  to
 time:
 3/28/89
                                                                         -   7 -
     A.    To  purchase  and  sell  the  following  foreign  currencies  in  the  form  of
 cable  transfers  through  spot  or  forward  transactions  on  the  open  market  at
 home  and  abroad,  including  transactions  with  the  U.  S.  Treasury,  with  the
 U.  S.  Exchange  Stabilization  Fund  established  by  Section  10  of  the  Gold
 Reserve  Act  of  1934,  with  foreign  monetary  authorities,  with  the  Bank
 for  International  Settlements,  and  with  other  international  financial
 institutions:
                                                       Austrian  schillings
                                                       Belgian  francs
                                                       Canadian  dollars
                                                       Danish  kroner
                                                       Pounds  sterling
                                                       French  francs
                                                       German  marks
                                                       Italian  lire
                                                       Japanese  yen
                                                       Mexican  pesos
                                                       Netherlands  guilders
                                                       Norwegian  kroner
                                                       Swedish  kronor
                                                       Swiss  francs
     B.    To  hold  balances  of,  and  to  have  outstanding  forward  contracts  to
 receive  or  to  deliver,  the  foreign  currencies  listed  in  paragraph  A  above.
     C.    To  draw  foreign  currencies  and  to  permit  foreign  banks  to  draw  dollars
 under  the  reciprocal  currency  arrangements  listed  in  paragraph  2 below,
 provided  that  drawings  by  either  party  to  any  such  arrangement  shall  be
 fully  liquidated  within  12  months  after  any  amount  outstanding  at  that  time
 was  first  drawn,  unless  the  Committee,  because  of  exceptional  circumstances,
 specifically  authorizes  a  delay.
     D.    To  maintain  an  overall  open  position  in  all  foreign  currencies  not
 exceeding  $12.0  billion.   For  this  purpose,  the  overall  open  position  in  all
 foreign  currencies  is  defined  as  the  sum  (disregarding  signs)  of  net  posi
 tions  in  individual  currencies.    The  net  position  in  a  single  foreign
 currency  is  defined  as  holdings  of  balances  in  that  currency,  plus  out
 standing  contracts  for  future  receipt,  minus  outstanding  contracts  for
 future  delivery  of  that  currency,  i.e.,   as  the  sum  of  these  elements
with  due  regard  to  sign.
     2.    The  Federal  Open Market  Committee  directs  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
New York  to  maintain  reciprocal  currency  arrangements  ("swap"  arrangements)
for  the  System  Open Market  Account  for  periods  up  to  a  maximum  of  12  months
with  the  following  foreign  banks,  which  are  among  those  designated  by  the
Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  under  Section  214.5  of
Regulation  N,  Relations  with  Foreign  Banks  and  Bankers,  and  with  the  approval
of  the Committee  to  renew  such  arrangements  on  maturity:
  are  among  those  designated  by  the
Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  under  Section  214.5  of
Regulation  N,  Relations  with  Foreign  Banks  and  Bankers,  and  with  the  approval
of  the Committee  to  renew  such  arrangements  on  maturity:

