                                                                                                  Committee
                            Meeting  of  the  Federal  Open  Market
                                                       February  5-6,  1991
                                                       Minutes  of Actions
                   A meeting  of  the  Federal Open  Market  Committee  was  held  in
 the  offices  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  in
Washington,  D.C.,  on  Tuesday,  February  5, 1991,  at  2:30  p.m.  and  was
 continued  on Wednesday,  February  6, 1991,  at  9:00  a.m.
                   PRESENT:    Mr.  Greenspan,  Chairman
                                      Mr.  Corrigan, Vice  Chairman
                                      Mr.  Angell
                                      Mr.  Black
                                      Mr.   Forrestal
                                      Mr.   Keehn
                                      Mr.  Kelley
                                      Mr.  LaWare
                                      Mr.   Mullins
                                      Mr.  Parry
                                      Ms.  Seger
                                      Messrs.  Guffey,  Hoskins,  Melzer,  and  Syron, Alternate
                                                Members  of  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee
                                      Messrs.  Boehne,  McTeer,  and  Stern,  Presidents  of  the
                                                Federal  Reserve  Banks  of  Philadelphia,  Dallas,
                                                and Minneapolis,  respectively
                                                Mr.  Kohn,  Secretary  and  Economist
                                                Mr.   Bernard,  Deputy Secretary
                                                Mr.  Coyne,  Assistant  Secretary
                                                Mr.  Gillum, Assistant  Secretary
                                                Mr.  Mattingly,  General  Counsel
                                                Mr.  Prell,  Economist
                                                Messrs.  Beebe,  Broaddus,  R. Davis,  Lindsey,
                                                          Promisel,  Scheld,  Siegman,  Simpson,  Slifman,
                                                          and Ms.  Tschinkel,  Associate  Economists
                                                Mr.  Sternlight,  Manager  for  Domestic  Operations,
                                                          System  Open  Market  Account
                                                Mr.  Cross,  Manager  for  Foreign  Operations,
                                                          System  Open  Market  Account
                                                                     -2-
                                       Mr.  Ettin,  Deputy Director,  Division  of  Research  and
                                                 Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                       Mr.  Stockton,    Associate  Director,  Division  of  Research
                                                 and  Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                       Mr.  Hooper,  Assistant  Director,  Division  of  International
                                                 Finance,  Board  of  Governors
                                       Mr.  Rosine,    Senior  Economist,  Division  of  Research  and
                                                 Statistics,  Board  of  Governors
                                       Mr.  Fisher,    Economist,  Division  of Monetary  Affairs,
                                                 Board  of  Governors
                                       Ms.  Low,  Open  Market  Secretariat  Assistant,  Division  of
                                                 Monetary  Affairs,  Board  of  Governors
                                       Messrs.  J. Davis,  T.  Davis,  Lang,  Rolnick,  and
                                                 Rosenblum,  Senior  Vice  Presidents,  Federal  Reserve
                                                 Banks  of  Cleveland,  Kansas  City,  Philadelphia,
                                                 Minneapolis,  and  Dallas,  respectively
                                       Mr.  McNees,  Vice  President,  Federal  Reserve  Bank
                                                 of  Boston
                                       Mr.  Thornton,  Assistant  Vice  President,  Federal  Reserve
                                                 Bank  of  St.  Louis
                                       Ms.  Krieger, Manager,  Open Market  Operations,
                                                 Federal  Reserve Bank  of  New  York
                   In  the  agenda  for  this meeting,  it  was  reported  that  advices  of
 the  election  of  the  following members  and  alternate members  of  the  Federal
 Open  Market  Committee  for  the  period  commencing  January  1, 1991,  and  ending
 December  31,   1991,  had  been  received and  the  named  individuals  had  executed
 their  oaths  of  office.
                   The  elected members  and alternate  members  were  as  follows:
 E.  Gerald Corrigan,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of New  York,  with
         James  H.  Oltman,  First  Vice  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
        New  York,  as  alternate;
 Robert  P.  Black,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Richmond,
        with  Richard  F.  Syron,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
        Boston,  as  alternate;
Silas  Keehn,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Chicago,  with
        W.  Lee  Hoskins,  President  of  the Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Cleveland,
        as  alternate;
Robert  P.  Forrestal,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  Atlanta,  with
        Thomas  C.  Melzer,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  St.  Louis,
        as  alternate;
  1.   Attended  portion  of  meeting  relating  to  the  Committe's  discussion
          of  the  economic  outlook  and  its  longer-run  objectives  for monetary
          and  debt  aggregates.
                                                                     -3
 Robert  T. Parry,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  San  Francisco,
         with  Roger  Guffey,  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of
         Kansas  City,  as  alternate.
                   By  unanimous  vote,  the  following  officers  of  the  Federal  Open
 Market  Committee  were  elected  to  serve  until  the  election  of  their
 successors  at  the  first  meeting  of  the  Committee  after  December  31,  1991,
 with the  understanding  that  in the  event  of  the  discontinuance  of  their
 official  connection with  the  Board  of  Governors  or  with  a Federal  Reserve
 Bank,  they would  cease  to  have  any  official  connection  with  the  Federal
 Open  Market  Committee:
 Alan  Greenspan                                                                               Chairman
 E. Gerald Corrigan                                                                            Vice  Chairman
 Donald  L. Kohn                                                                               Secretary  and  Economist
 Normand  R. V.  Bernard                                                                       Deputy  Secretary
 Joseph  R. Coyne                                                                              Assistant  Secretary
 Gary  P. Gillum                                                                               Assistant  Secretary
 J. Virgil  Mattingly,  Jr.                                                                    General  Counsel
 Ernest  T. Patrikis                                                                           Deputy General  Counsel
 Michael  J. Prell                                                                             Economist
 Edwin  M. Truman                                                                              Economist
 John  H. Beebe,  J. Alfred  Broaddus,  Jr.,
     Richard  G. Davis,  David  E. Lindsey,
     Larry  J. Promisel,  Karl  A.  Scheld,
     Charles  J. Siegman,  Thomas  D.  Simpson,
     Lawrence  Slifman,  and  Sheila  L. Tschinkel                                             Associate  Economists
                   By  unanimous  vote,  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York  was
 selected to  execute  transactions  for  the  System  Open  Market  Account  until
 the  adjournment  of  the  first  meeting  of  the  Committee  after  December  31,
 1991.
                   By  unanimous  vote,  Peter  D.  Sternlight  and  Sam Y.  Cross  were
 selected to  serve  at  the  pleasure  of the  Committee  in the  capacities  of
Manager  for  Domestic  Operations,  System Open Market  Account,  and Manager
 for  Foreign Operations,  System Open Market  Account,  respectively,  on  the
understanding  that  their  selection  was  subject  to  their  being  satisfactory
to  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York.
Secretary's  note:    Advice  subsequently  was  received
 that  the  selections  indicated above  were  satisfactory
 to  the  board  of  directors  of the  Federal  Reserve  Bank
 of  New  York.
 Secretary's  note:    On  January  25,  1991,  the  continuing
 rules,  regulations,  authorizations,  and  other  instruments
 of  the  Committee  listed below  had  been  distributed  with
 the  advice  that,  in  accordance  with  procedures  approved
 by  the  Committee,  they  were  being  called  to  the
 Committee's  attention before  the  February  5-6  organiza
 tion meeting to  give  members  an  opportunity  to  raise  any
 questions  they  might  have  concerning  them.   Members  were
 asked  to  indicate  if they  wished  to  have  any  of  the
 instruments  in question  placed  on the  agenda  for  con
 sideration  at  this  meeting.   Two  requests  for  review
 related  to  items  1 and  2 below:     "Rules Regarding
Availability  of  Information"  and  "Agreement with  the
 U.S.  Treasury to  Warehouse  Foreign  Currencies".
Accordingly,  all  of  the  other  instruments   (items 3
 through  10  below)  remained  in  effect  in  their  existing
 forms.
   1.   Rules  Regarding  Availability  of  Information.
   2.   Agreement  with  the  U.S.  Treasury to  Warehouse
           Foreign  Currencies.
   3.   Procedures  for  allocation  of  securities  in  the
          System  Open Market  Account.
   4.   Authority  for  the  Chairman to  appoint  a Federal
          Reserve  Bank  as  agent  to  operate  the  System Account
          in  case  the  New  York  Bank  is  unable  to  function.
  5.   Resolution  of  FOMC  to  provide  for  the  continued
          operation  of  the  Committee  during  an  emergency;
          Resolution  of  FOMC  authorizing  certain  actions  by
          Federal  Reserve  Banks  during  an  emergency.
   6.   Resolution  relating  to  examinations  of  the  System
          Open Market  Account.
   7.   Guidelines  for  the  conduct  of  System  operations  in
          Federal  agency  issues.
   8.   Regulation  relating  to  Open  Market  Operations  of
          Federal  Reserve  Banks.
   9.   Rules  of  Organization  and  Rules  of  Procedure.
10.    Program  for  Security of  FOMC  Information.
                                                                                                                                Market
                   By  unanimous  vote,  the Authorization  for  Domestic  Open
 Operations  shown  below  was  reaffirmed:
                         AUTHORIZATION  FOR  DOMESTIC  OPEN MARKET  OPERATIONS
                                             Reaffirmed  February  5, 1991
     1. The  Federal Open  Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs  the  Federal
 Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  to  the  extent  necessary  to  carry  out  the  most
 recent  domestic policy  directive  adopted  at  a meeting of  the  Committee:
            (a) To buy  or  sell  U.  S. Government  securities,  including  securities
 of the  Federal  Financing  Bank,  and  securities  that  are  direct  obliga
 tions  of,  or  fully  guaranteed  as  to  principal  and  interest  by,  any  agency
 of the  United  States  in the  open market,  from or  to  securities  dealers
 and  foreign  and  international  accounts maintained  at the  Federal  Reserve
 Bank  of  New  York,  on  a cash,  regular,  or  deferred  delivery  basis,  for  the
 System Open  Market  Account  at  market  prices,  and,  for  such Account,  to
 exchange  maturing U.  S. Government  and  Federal  agency  securities  with  the
 Treasury  or the  individual  agencies  or  to  allow  them to  mature  without
 replacement;  provided  that  the  aggregate  amount  of                                                       U. S. Government
 and  Federal  agency  securities  held  in  such Account   (including forward
 commitments) at  the  close  of  business  on  the  day  of  a meeting  of  the
 Committee  at  which  action  is  taken  with  respect  to  a domestic  policy
 directive  shall  not  be  increased  or  decreased  by  more  than  $8.0  billion
 during  the  period  commencing  with  the  opening  of  business  on  the  day
 following  such meeting  and  ending  with  the  close  of  business  on  the  day
 of  the  next  such meeting;
           (b) When  appropriate,  to  buy  or  sell  in  the  open market,  from or  to
 acceptance  dealers  and  foreign  accounts  maintained  at  the  Federal  Reserve
 Bank  of  New  York,  on  a cash,  regular,  or  deferred  delivery  basis,  for  the
 account  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York  at  market  discount  rates,
 prime  bankers  acceptances  with maturities  of  up  to  nine  months  at  the
 time  of  acceptance  that   (1) arise  out  of  the  current  shipment  of  goods
 between  countries  or  within  the  United  States,  or   (2) arise  out  of  the
 storage  within  the  United  States  of  goods  under  contract  of  sale  or
 expected  to move  into  the  channels  of  trade  within  a reasonable  time  and
 that  are  secured  throughout  their  life  by  a warehouse  receipt  or  similar
 document  conveying  title  to  the  underlying  goods;  provided  that  the
 aggregate  amount  of  bankers  acceptances  held  at  any  one  time  shall  not
 exceed  $100  million;
           (c) To buy  U. S. Government  securities,  obligations that  are  direct
obligations  of,  or  fully  guaranteed  as  to principal  and  interest  by,  any
agency  of  the  United  States,  and prime  bankers  acceptances  of the  types
authorized  for  purchase  under  1(b)  above,  from  dealers  for  the  account
of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York  under  agreements  for  repurchase
of  such  securities,  obligations,  or  acceptances  in  15  calendar  days  or
less,  at  rates  that,  unless  otherwise  expressly  authorized by  the
Committee,  shall  be  determined  by  competitive bidding,  after  applying
 reasonable  limitations  on  the  volume  of  agreements  with  individual
dealers;  provided  that  in the  event  Government  securities  or  agency
                                                                                                                                dealer
 issues  covered  by  any  such  agreement  are  not  repurchased  by  the
 pursuant  to  the  agreement  or  a renewal  thereof,  they  shall  be  sold  in  the
 market  or  transferred to  the  System Open Market  Account;   and  provided
 further  that  in the  event  bankers  acceptances  covered by  any  such
 agreement  are  not  repurchased by  the  seller,  they  shall  continue  to  be
 held by  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  or  shall  be  sold  in  the  open  market.
     2. In  order to  ensure  the  effective  conduct  of  open  market  operations,
 the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs  the  Federal
 Reserve  Banks  to  lend  U. S. Government  securities  held  in  the  System Open
 Market  Account  to  Government  securities  dealers  and  to  banks
 participating  in  Government  securities  clearing arrangements  conducted
 through  a  Federal  Reserve  Bank,  under  such  instructions  as  the  Committee
 may  specify  from time  to  time.
     3. In order  to  ensure  the  effective  conduct  of  open market  operations,
 while  assisting  in  the  provision of  short-term  investments  for  foreign
 and  international  accounts  maintained  at  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of New
 York,  the  Federal  Open Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs the
 Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York   (a) for  System Open Market  Account,  to
 sell  U. S. Government  securities  to  such  foreign  and  international
 accounts  on  the  bases  set  forth  in  paragraph  1(a)  under  agreements
 providing  for  the  resale  by  such  accounts  of  those  securities  within  15
 calendar  days  on  terms  comparable  to  those  available  on  such  trans
 actions  in  the  market;   and  (b) for  New  York  Bank  account,  when
 appropriate,  to  undertake  with  dealers,  subject  to  the  conditions  imposed
 on  purchases  and  sales  of  securities  in  paragraph  1(c),   repurchase
 agreements  in  U. S. Government  and  agency  securities,  and to  arrange
 corresponding  sale  and  repurchase  agreements  between  its  own  account  and
 foreign  and  international  accounts  maintained  at  the  Bank.  Transactions
 undertaken  with  such  accounts  under  the  provisions  of this  paragraph  may
 provide  for  a service  fee  when  appropriate.
                   By  unanimous  vote,  the  Authorization  for  Foreign  Currency
 Operations  shown  below  was  reaffirmed:
                             AUTHORIZATION  FOR  FOREIGN CURRENCY  OPERATIONS
                                             Reaffirmed  February 5,  1991
     1.   The  Federal  Open Market  Committee  authorizes  and  directs  the
 Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York,  for  System Open Market  Account,  to  the
 extent  necessary  to  carry  out  the  Committee's  foreign  currency  directive
 and  express  authorizations  by  the  Committee  pursuant  thereto,  and  in
 conformity  with  such procedural  instructions  as  the  Committee  may  issue
 from  time  to  time:
          A.  To  purchase  and  sell  the  following  foreign  currencies  in the  form
 of  cable  transfers through  spot  or  forward transactions  on  the  open
market  at  home  and  abroad,  including  transactions  with  the  U. S.
 Treasury,  with  the U.  S. Exchange Stabilization  Fund  established by
                                                                                                                  monetary
 Section  10  of  the  Gold  Reserve  Act  of  1934,  with  foreign
 authorities,  with  the  Bank  for  International  Settlements,  and  with  other
 international  financial  institutions:
                                                       Austrian  schillings
                                                       Belgian  francs
                                                       Canadian  dollars
                                                       Danish  kroner
                                                       Pounds  sterling
                                                       French  francs
                                                       German marks
                                                       Italian  lire
                                                       Japanese  yen
                                                      Mexican  pesos
                                                       Netherlands  guilders
                                                       Norwegian  kroner
                                                       Swedish  kronor
                                                       Swiss  francs
           B. To  hold  balances  of,  and  to  have  outstanding  forward  contracts  to
 receive  or  to  deliver, the  foreign  currencies  listed  in paragraph  A
 above.
           C. To  draw  foreign  currencies  and to  permit  foreign banks  to  draw
 dollars  under  the  reciprocal  currency arrangements  listed  in paragraph  2
 below,  provided  that  drawings by  either  party  to  any  such arrangement
 shall  be  fully  liquidated  within  12  months  after  any  amount  outstanding
 at  that  time  was  first  drawn,  unless  the  Committee,  because  of
 exceptional  circumstances,  specifically  authorizes  a delay.
           D. To maintain  an  overall open  position  in  all  foreign  currencies
 not  exceeding  $25.0  billion.   For  this  purpose,  the  overall  open  position
 in  all  foreign  currencies  is defined  as  the  sum  (disregarding signs)  of
 net  positions  in  individual  currencies.    The  net  position  in  a single
 foreign  currency  is  defined as  holdings  of  balances  in  that  currency,
plus  outstanding  contracts  for  future  receipt,  minus  outstanding
 contracts  for  future  delivery  of  that  currency,  i.e.,   as  the  sum  of  these
 elements with  due  regard to  sign.
     2. The  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  directs  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank
of  New  York  to  maintain  reciprocal  currency  arrangements  ("swap"
 arrangements)  for  the  System  Open  Market  Account  for  periods  up  to  a
maximum  of  12  months  with  the  following  foreign  banks,  which  are  among
those  designated by  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System
under  Section  214.5  of  Regulation  N, Relations  with  Foreign  Banks  and
Bankers,  and with  the  approval  of  the  Committee  to  renew  such
arrangements  on maturity:
n  banks,  which  are  among
those  designated by  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System
under  Section  214.5  of  Regulation  N, Relations  with  Foreign  Banks  and
Bankers,  and with  the  approval  of  the  Committee  to  renew  such
arrangements  on maturity:

